[PAGE 8]
[RUNNING HEAD] 8	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Haeckel's Athoria bractealis is a nomen nudum. His third, fourth and fifth families, Apolemiidae Huxley, Agalmidae Brandt and Forskaliidae Haeckel still stand. Nectalia loligo (Nectaliidae) is, I feel sure, a juvenile form and not of generic or family significance. His family Discolabidae is now known as Physophoridae; in spite of Garstang's (1946) comments on Discolabe, I believe that there is only one physophorid, namely Physophora hydrostatica. Haeckel's last physonect family, Anthophysidae, is known as Athorybiidae.

Haeckel and others have stated that Cystonectae possess no nectophores. I have shown (1960) that nectophores are budded on the gonodendra of Physalia physalis and Rhizophysa species, though none are budded directly from the proximal part of the cystonect oozooid as in most Physonectae. Haeckel's English text says that the only 'organ of swimming' is the large apical pneumatophore. I think that the translator should have said 'organ of floatation'.

In Haeckel's treatment of the Cystonectae, he recorded how the species included in this group had not been separated from the Physonectae until the year 1835 when Brandt had then set up two sub-families: 1. Rhizophysidae for two species of Rhizophysa, one of which Brandt called Epibulia, and 2. Physaliidae (which we now consider to contain a single species Physalia physalis). Haeckel dealt with the three species of these two genera and a third, Pterophysa conifera Studer, as if there were thirty of them, grouped into fourteen genera. In addition to Brandt's two families, Haeckel erected three more, Cystalidae, Epibulidae,* and Salaciidae, all of which should be treated with caution. Cystalia larvalis might be a juvenile form of Epibulia ritteriana, in spite of the fact that its pneumatophore does not possess hypocystic villi. Haeckel's Salaciidae for Salacia polygastrica (Salacia was pre-occupied and Salacella was substituted by Delage & Hérouard in 1901) should be dropped. I have mentioned (1954) the difficulty of accepting S. polygastrica. Of Haeckel's rhizophysid genera, Aurophysa and Linophysa are bathyphysids; Cannophysa, Nectophysa and Pneumophysa are synonyms of Rhizophysa. His three sub-families of Rhizophysidae, Cannophysidae and Linophysidae are therefore valueless.

Medusome Theory

The section (p. 21) headed 'Fundamental Form (Promorph)' begins with a discussion of the theories as to the organization of siphonophores. The two older interpretations which Haeckel thought to contain a mixture of truth and error are, of course, as Hadzi (1918), Garstang (1946), Leloup (1954) and other reviewers have mentioned, (1) the poly-person theory, held by most of the workers from 1848 to 1882, which regarded siphonophores as colonies of polyps, and (2) the poly-organ theory which, briefly, regarded the siphonophore organization as homologous with that of a budding medusa like Sarsia prolifera. After this discussion Haeckel then proceeded to expound his Medusome Theory. This theory (p. 3) was presumably based, without acknowledgement, on original views published twenty-three years earlier by Alexander Agassiz on dislocation of medusa parts (in A. Agassiz, 1865, p. 211). It is based on the false premise that all the parts of a physonect – float, nectophores, bracts, palpons, gastrozooids as well as gonophores (but not palpacles nor tentacles) – which were acknowledged as organs, are dissociated parts of a medusa or secondarily budded medusae. For instance, Haeckel added together the bract of a eudoxid (which probably represents a palpon) and a gastrozooid (both of them probably secondarily budded larvae) to form the umbrella and manubrium of a medusa or medusome. He thought that in siphonophores the constituent parts of an original medusa could exist as dissociated parts. He seems to mean three different things by 'medusomes': 1. medusoid gonophores; 2. sterile medusomes, eudoxids consisting of bract and gastrozooid but without gonophores; 3. any appendages except tentacles – all derived from medusae, sometimes by repetition or dislocation of parts.

[FOOTNOTE] * For a discussion of the 'Epibulidae', see page 44.
