[PAGE 129]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	129

visiting planktonologists should keep a look out for this species at Villefranche and preserve in formalin some specimens relaxed in magnesium chloride because none are known to exist in museum collections.

Genus: STEPHANOPHYES Chun, 1888

Monotypic genus for S. superba Chun.

Definition

Polygastric phase

Prayines with four large nectophores forming a corona. Somatocyst with only one bifurcation in young stages of development, but in mature nectophores each of these branches may rebranch complexly about ten times, the tips of the branchlets being pigmented. When fully grown the nectosac's ostium lies nearly parallel with the long axis.

Eudoxid phase

The stem-groups bear in addition to the gastrozooids, nectophores, bracts and gonophores some characteristic reduced, mouthless gastrozooids or palpons growing singly or two to three on a single pedicel. They bear heteromorph tentacles. This is the only calycophore genus in which palpons are found. The lateral radial canals of the special swimming bells are meandering and not straight.

Stephanophyes superba Chun, 1888

Plate XXV, figures 1, 2; Plate XXVI, figures 1–3

Stephanophyes superba Chun, 1891
Lilyopsis diphyes (pro parte) Moser (1917, 1924a)

A very distinct species with a much branched somatocyst in the nectophores of the nectosome. It is the only known calycophore with a second kind of reduced gastrozooid, and a second, heteromorph kind of cnidobattery in the fully formed groups.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXV, figs. 1, 2; Pl. XXVI, figs. 1–3)

Nectophore: Chun (1891) gave detailed figures of the various growth stages of the complexly branched somatocyst, which has only one bifurcation in the upper part of young specimens. It was probably one of there juvenile specimens that Moser (1917) described as 'Lilyopsis diphyes', on page 734. In later stages the two lateral branches may subdivide about ten times each, not necessarily symmetrically. In the early growth stages the nectosac occupies the greater part of the nectophore, its ostium being directed obliquely outwards and downwards. In later stages the inner and upper end of the nectophore is relatively larger, and the ostium of the nectosac lies more nearly parallel with the stem. There are some small red tubercles on the ventral side of the ostium.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 73.) The stem-groups are closely set, and were stated by Chun not to separate off. Confirmation of this statement is needed. The bract has a canal system that can be related to those of species of Rosacea and Praya. There is (see Chun, 1891, Taf. III) a right and left hydroecial canal (c.rs.5, c.br.6), a right and left spur-canal (c.br.4, c.br.1), a dorsal canal (c.br.3) and a ventral canal (c.br.2). There is a large asexual swimming bell, whose lateral radial canals follow a meandering course to the ring-canal. The four radial canals do not branch together from the pedicel. There is, in addition to the special nectophore, a bunch of reduced medusoid gonophores close to the distal side of the

[NOTE: "probably one of there juvenile specimens" is printed thus, with "there" where "these" would be expected; transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: the first canal abbreviation in the last paragraph is printed "c.rs.5", not "c.br.5" as the parallel abbreviations in the same sentence would suggest; transcribed as printed. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]
