[PAGE 166]

166	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
1MM

1MM

1MM.

A

B

C

FIG. 101.   A, Lensia cossack Totton polygastric phase; lateral view of anterior nectophore
B, C, Lensia hunter Totton (p. 164)
B, lateral view of anterior nectophore; C, ventral view of somatocyst (from Totton, 1941, figs. 8, 11, 12)
[/FIGURE]

Lensia cossack Totton, 1941

Diphyes subtiloides Browne, 1926

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 101A):   Up to 11·6 mm in length. Four longitudinal folds, that enable the nectosac to contract and expand, divide the rounded exterior surface into four rounded longitudinal ridges, a dorsal, a pair of laterals and a ventral. There is a very slight median crest on the dorsal, and a pair of lateral vestigial ones may be present as well. The basal facet is horse-shoe shaped, and has a slight notch on the ventral side. There is virtually no hydroecial cavity. The mouth-plates are very short. The somatocyst is ovoid, oblique and measures, when well preserved, one-third of the length of the nectophore, the apex of which is not twisted.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Lensia challengeri Totton, 1954
Text-figure 102A, B (p. 166)

A form closely related to L. fowleri and L. hardy, occurring very abundantly off the Californian coast (see Totton, 1954, p. 111). The specimen figured by Totton (1941, fig. 13, as L. hotspur) belongs to L. challengeri.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 7·5 mm in length. Five longitudinal ridges. Somatocyst spherical, egg-shaped or flattened, lying at level of ostium. The hydroecial cavity does not extend below the ventral side. Baso-ventral margin entire. Mouth-plate on left (in dorsal view) much broader than the other (text-fig. 102B). Both halves of mouth-plate are much less deep than those of L. fowleri and L. hardy.

Posterior nectophore:   Known but undescribed.	Eudoxid phase – known but undescribed.

[NOTE: the last line of the page sets two separate items side by side — "Posterior
nectophore: Known but undescribed." at the left margin and "Eudoxid phase – known but
undescribed." at the right; given here left then right, separated by a tab.]

[NOTE: the three scale-bar labels inside the figure are hand-lettered small capitals; in
each the "1" is a bare vertical stroke (the third, beside C, has top and bottom serifs and
is followed by a full stop). The bar beside C is graduated with ten tick marks. A small
stray ink mark sits above the line-end after "belongs" in the Lensia challengeri paragraph.]
