[PAGE 23]
[RUNNING HEAD] GROSS MORPHOLOGY	23

[FIGURE]
T₃
T₄
T₅
GZ₃
T₂
GZ OF GON₂
A
C
0
2 mm
GZ₂
B

FIG. 5.   Young cormidium: Physalia physalis
Cormidium 5 (oral zone) less group 1, to show budding. GZ₂GZ₃ = gastrozooids; GZ OF GON = secondary gastrozooid: initial growth-stage of a gonodendron; T₂₋₅ = tentacles (from Totton, 1960, fig. 15).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
g
jp
p
nect
p

Physalia physalis
FIG. 6.   Terminal part of a gonodendron:
× 15
g = styloid gonophore; jp = jelly-polyp; nect = nectophore; p = palpon (from Totton, 1960, fig. 29).
[/FIGURE]

Not all the Physonectae are long-stemmed forms. Progressive shortening or perhaps failure to lengthen, of both nectosome and siphosome occurs, sometimes accompanied by enlargement of the aboral float. An extreme example of these changes in form is seen in Stephalia corona (Pl. XVIII, fig. 1) where the distended float lies above a circle of nectophores. In Physophora hydrostatica (Pl. XV, figs. 1, 9) the siphosome is hypertrophied to form a sac and in Athorybia rosacea (Pl. XVII, fig. 1) all the nectophores have been lost.

From the third type of larva, the calycophore, the nectosome gives rise to a varying number of asexual nectophores, each budded from the foot-stalk of its predecessor. They lie at the aboral pole of the siphonophore. There may be a single nectophore as in Muggiaea (Pl. XXXII, fig. 1); two nectophores as in abylids (Pl. XXXVIII, figs. 1–3), one being the persistent larval nectophore; several, in a circle as in Stephanophyes (Pl. XXV), or alternating and closely arranged as in Hippopodius (Pl. XXVIII). In forms where the larval nectophore is caducous, the adult nectophores are replaceable by budding from the nectosome.

The siphosome, the second budding zone on the opposite side of the calycophore larva, gives rise to the stem-groups. Three growth phases generally occur in the further development of the calycophore: (1) the polygastric (text-fig. 8), (2) the eudoxid (text-fig. 9), and (3) the mature free adult medusoid phase (text-fig. 10). The first phase is called polygastric because the middle stem-part of the animal carries a succession of gastrozooids and tentacles, each gastrozooid accompanied by a single bract and medusoid gonophores. This phase is comparable with the condition found in a long-stemmed physonect, where palpons, gonophores and bracts are grouped with a gastrozooid to form a succession of cormidia, except that in the calycophore there are usually no palpons. In the second phase, the eudoxid, the stem-groups become free-swimming through fragmentation of the stem
