[PAGE 16]
[RUNNING HEAD] 16	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

fixed adult, which buds; (2) the addition of yolk to the egg leading to postponement of fixation and precocious larval budding; and (3) fixation abandoned, metamorphosis abbreviated and production of a nondescript oozooid nurse-carrier of secondary larvae which produce adults. He stated (p. 134) 'that there are grounds for thinking that a sequence of this kind has profoundly affected the character and organization of Siphonanth colonies. For budding begins in the earliest larval stage, the eggs of all Siphonanths are exceptionally large, and in Physophores only one egg is produced at a time – a feature which in Hydroids is associated with the formation of Actinula larvae. . . . It seems possible, therefore, that the original larva of Siphonanth ancestors was not a Planula but an Actinula, and that the Planuloid appearance of Siphonanth larvae is due to the precocity of budding before the typical Actinuloid characters have developed'.

This assumption led Garstang to suggest (p. 144) that siphonophore bracts are 'neither modified polyps nor modified medusoids, but represent the persistent tentacles of the original Actinula larvae more fully adapted for the locomotive and other functions (protective) which . . . they discharge'. Garstang revived Schneider's (1896) hypothesis that the primary (larval) bract, already verging on disappearance, in physonects, became secondarily fused with the larval nectophore in the Calycophorae, and he deduced that in the earliest stages of their history calycophores, as well as physonects, possessed larval bracts, probably before nectophores were evolved.

With increasing precocity, the first or larval bract was transformed into a transitory gelatinous shield over the budding area and in physophores the locomotor function was handed over to its successors (nectophores), while in calycophores, locomotive bracts became superfluous, and the primary bract was incorporated in the nectophore. I myself am inclined to think that in physonects the precocious bract was suppressed by the precocious nectophore on that side, so that the definitive nectophores were budded from the opposite side. It is not quite true that, as Garstang said, in siphonophores budding takes place in one meridian only, due to the early development of a thick muscular layer elsewhere. For it has been established that in most physonects (not apparently in Forskalia) the budding meridian for nectophores is on the side opposite that of siphosomal buds. The origin of this arrangement appears early on (see text-figs. 19 and 20 of the larvae of Agalma elegans) before the thick muscular layers are formed.

In this important paper Garstang gave a critical review of the opposing theories on siphonophore morphology held up to the year in which he wrote, and noted the confusion resulting in errors which had been perpetuated in text-book after text-book. He also included a very useful Glossary of Terms.

LELOUP

After many years of morphological research on Siphonophora some of us – Bigelow wisely is an exception – like to indulge in the luxury of a little stimulating speculation on phylogeny. Leloup published his thoughts on the subject in 1954, and the following review of it may be useful. Leloup (1954) summarized the published views of those who have been most interested in Siphonophora on the nature of these animals – whether they are individuals or colonies – and on their origin and phylogeny. It would perhaps have been less confusing if he had considered the disconanths (Chondrophora) apart from the siphonophores proper. Leloup is the first to have drawn attention to Hadzi's (1918 and 1944) speculation on the origin of these animals. I will here deal with what appears to be the most interesting or debateable features in Leloup's treatment of the subject. The minor criticisms I have to offer are included in square brackets.

Leloup maintained that siphonophores are derived from littoral gymnoblastic hydroids connected with the family Tubulariidae. He supported his general argument by a comparative study of the larvae of both groups (p. 674) and a study of pelagic tubularians which he called homologues of
