[PAGE 40]
[RUNNING HEAD] 40	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

The apical pore end, the posterior half of the animal, is free of secondary buds, which are developed in two anterior zones, main and oral, with a slight gap between. The secondary buds form cormidial groups (text-fig. 5) usually seven groups in each zone, which arise on the same side as the tentacle of the protozooid. Of these secondary buds the first to appear are the gastrozooids; each gastrozooid usually comes to be associated with a tentacle and a gonodendron, but Physalia differs from most siphonophores in that the tentacle becomes separated from its basigaster in later growth stages. The need for very numerous nematocysts in dealing with the fishes on which the animal feeds has led to much enlarged seats for their development, the basigasters (text-fig. 1 amp).

Budding is very profuse and new gastrozooids are budded off from the bases of their predecessors, together with further gonodendra, but in the course of successive buddings, the gastrozooids gradually change into tentacle-less palpons. At the bases of the terminal palpons are developed the very much reduced medusoid gonophores. One gonophore of each terminal branchlet becomes an asexual nectophore; another, the so-called 'jelly-polyp', appears to be a vestigeal nectophore (text-fig. 6). The functional gonophores of each Physalia are of one sex only. Early developmental stages of the larva are unknown.

In young growth stages up to about two millimetres in length, the float-length is almost half the whole. In the oldest stages the protozooid appears as a small appendage of the enormously enlarged float. At this late stage the long axis of the whole lies horizontally at the surface of the sea. When the animal is being drifted along, at an angle of about 45° right or left of the down-wind direction, the tentacles lie near the surface and are extended perhaps to seventy times their contracted length.

Family 2: RHIZOPHYSIDAE Brandt, 1835

Rhizophysiadae Huxley, 1859

The history of the literature of the sub-order Rhizophysaliae Chun, 1882, of the family – originally sub-family – Rhizophysidae and sub-families Rhizophysinae, Epibuliinae and Bathyphysinae has been dealt with by Bigelow (1911b).

It seems to me that if there are such animals as Epibuliinae (Epibulia ritteriana Hkl., 1888b) they could not be included in the Rhizophysidae because of the alleged possession of a ring of palpons below the float. I am inclined to suggest that the description of this animal by Haeckel was based on a misconception of a specimen of Athorybia rosacea, and that Haeckel's figure is unrealistic and idealized, though beautifully executed. If such animals exist no doubt one will be found again.

None of the Rhizophysidae commonly come into the hands of systematists, though the hands of fishermen suffer from their stings, since their tentacles often adhere to cordage and nets by their nematocysts. No doubt these animals are abundant in deep water. One species in particular, Bathyphysa conifera, is frequently found adhering to the hemp of the grappling lines used by cable-ships. Some special fishing device is probably needed to catch them for study, because specimens are naturally damaged when grappling lines and dredge-wires to which they may have adhered are taken inboard over a sheave.

It is more knowledge of actual specimens that is needed rather than further discussion of the literature.

Genus:   RHIZOPHYSA Péron & Lesueur, 1807

Distinguished from Bathyphysa by the absence of ptera on the walls of the gastrozooids in all growth-stages.

Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) gave an account of the history of this genus and Bigelow (1911b)

[NOTE: "(text-fig. 1 amp)" is so printed, with the italic abbreviation "amp" after the figure number. In the heading "Family 2:" the character before the colon is an old-style arabic numeral 2.]
