[PAGE 18]
[RUNNING HEAD] 18	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

structure. He thought that the possession of only one nectophore is due either to tachygenesis or to a tendency to reduce the number of organs in order to increase speed.

In section IIIa Leloup dealt with 'Physophorides' (sensu Eschscholtz, 1829, that is including Chondrophora). Though the adults of his three groups differ from one another so much, Leloup said that their ontogeny was so similar that he dared not separate them.

On page 682 Leloup stated that a study of ontogeny proved that the larva of Chondrophora, the ratarula, had an organization more ancestral than the 'larve siphonula' of the cystonects, and that the ratarula presented a mixture of primitive characters and of more highly evolved ones by comparison with the actinula larva of certain present day hydroids. [I must point out that the only certainly known cystonect larva is that of Physalia. No reliance should be placed, except with great reserve, on certain figures of Haeckel's purporting to be of this nature. Leloup reproduced them in his figure 3 as larvae of a cystonect, Cystalia monogastrica. This specific name is applicable only to figure 5 of Haeckel's (1888b) plate XXII. The larvae which he took in a townet Haeckel thought might belong to this species. Certainly no phylogentic arguments should be based on larvae of such doubtful parentage and identity. It is true that Leloup's figure 3B shows a larva not unlike that of Physalia. But I have grave doubts about the existence of Haeckel's Epibuliidae. As already stated (p. 8), Epibulia is a synonym of Rhizophysa, and has been used also for Sulculeolaria quadridentata.] Leloup (p. 682) said that a distant ancestor of the 'Physophorides' resembling an actinula with a float must have evolved in two directions. One group, keeping its aboral tentacles (ratarula) and expanding laterally, gave rise to the surface-living Chondrophora. Another group lost its aboral tentacles (siphonula) and subsequently lengthened. 'Adults' [physonects] have colonized even the great depths. [I have adopted Leloup's idea that the siphonophore tentacle represents one of the oral ones.]

On page 683, starting with the ancestral stage of a lengthening siphonula, Leloup postulated development of cystonects through a middle-zone proliferation which produced groups of polymorphic buds – the cormidia – accompanying the 'reproductive organs' which groups he said remained attached to the stem [in reality they finally break away].

In certain other siphonulas a second budding region, the nectosome, was formed for modified medusae, the nectophores. From these he derived the physonects, of which he regarded the Forskaliidae, as most primitive. He briefly described their families and organization.

In section IIIB Leloup tackled the phylogeny of the 'Calycophorides', showing that some authors have considered forms with a single nectophore – [the classification of Monophyidae, Diphyidae and Polyphyidae is outmoded] – as primitive [a proposition with which I dealt in 1932] and that other authors have thought that the polyphyids were the founders of the 'Calycophorides': Chun (1897b) and Moser (1925) thought that monophyids had given rise to diphyids, and these in turn to polyphyids. He quoted the systematic arrangement of the calycophorids adopted by Chun, Moser, Lameere (1929), Delage & Hérouard (1901), Schneider (1898) and my own tentative suggestions of 1932.

Finally in section IIIB2 Leloup gave his conception personelle of the phylogeny of the 'Calycophorides', which he derived from an ancestor shared by the 'Physonectides' and resembling the siphonula [? physonula], the difference being that in the 'Calycophorides' the first formed nectophore rapidly acquires a power sufficient to move the colony along at a progressively increased speed. He thought that the Hippopodiidae were the most primitive. Where, amongst the siphonophores, the fully developed buds ('les éléments adultes') are restricted in number, the phenomenon of a very complicated organization indicates an advanced stage of evolution. [I think the Prayidae are more primitive, and the Hippopodiidae are more complicated.]

The behaviour of the animals throws light on their phylogeny and evolution. Siphonophores have rid themselves of a life of slow locomotion ('Prayomorphes') and have adopted a rapid one ('Diphyo-
