[PAGE 11]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	11

interpretation of the air-sac, he said. According to the first theory, the air-sac (pneumatosaccus) is the exumbrella of a medusoid disc, according to the second it is the subumbrella. The latter opinion, Haeckel rightly thought is entirely erroneous, the former in a certain sense admissible. In the siphonula larva of the physonects the air-sac lies excentrically beside the apex. The whole pneumatophore is not, he said correctly, a secondary medusoid person, but the modified disc of the primary medusoid larva. But, of course, the larva is not medusoid.

Aurophore or Air-bell

In this short section Haeckel stated correctly that the air-bell is a voluminous gas-gland, but he was mistaken in thinking that it had developed out of a medusiform swimming-bell.

Siphosome or Nutritive Body

Haeckel made some erroneous statements in this section. He claimed a great distinction between what he called monogastric siphonophores which he said have no gastrozooids other than the protozooid – I do not know of any such forms – and the rest of the siphonophores, polygastric. He was quite mistaken in thinking that the mouth of the protozooid rarely persists, and that the protozooid itself does not survive. In my experience it is only missing from damaged specimens. He then interpreted stem – bracts, gonophores, gastrozooids, palpons and 'gonostyles' – in terms of (1) the poly-organ, (2) the poly-person and (3) his Medusome Theory. All three interpretations are in my opinion wrong.

Siphons or Suctorial Tubes

Haeckel also called these gastrozooids and this is what we call them to-day. His description is simple, but of the two alternative interpretations the first – that a gastrozooid is homologous with an entire polyp – is sound; the second – that it is homologous with the manubrium of a medusa – is false.

Monosiphoniae or Monogastric Siphonophores

Haeckel here included the eudoxid phases of Calyconectae, but these are really separated groups of secondary buds of polygastric forms. He said that monogastric forms (unspecified) might be regarded as 'sexually mature larvae' (neotenic) but, in true Haeckelian form, that 'in more accordance, however, with the phylogeny is the reverse interpretation, that those larvae of the Polysiphoniae repeat according to the fundamental biogenetic law, the structure of their Monosiphoniae ancestors'.

Polysiphoniae or Polygastric Siphonophores

We read more about Haeckel's interpretation of the budding of the secondary gastrozooids in this section. His statement that they arise from the ventral middle line of the primary siphon is sound, but he soon introduced his Medusome Theory to confuse what is, otherwise, a simple description of the formation of cormidia and eudoxids. He pointed out that the secondary stem-bracts are subordinate organs, though he had erroneously homologized the primary ones with the umbrella of medusae.

Palpons or Tasters

Haeckel made a distinction between palpons, which he said, wrongly in my experience, are mouthless, and cystons which he deals with in a short section, 'Cystons or Anal Vesicles', which follows. Palpons he claimed, are distinguished by (1) the absence of a distal opening, (2) by the absence of glandular villi and hepatic stripes in the stomach region. He thought their function is mainly if not exclusively, sensory. Here he repeated an error of observation in his description of the palpons of Athorybia: he reported the presence of a lens in a sickle-shaped pigment spot on the upper surface
