[PAGE 41]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 2 RHIZOPHYSIDAE	41

another. Morphology, particularly that of the gas-secreting apparatus, was discussed by Schneider (1898), who gave the following generic diagnosis: 'Cystonects with long, fine stems, whose gastrozooids have no lateral wings or ptera.' The rest of his diagnosis was applicable to all cystonects.

Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål, 1775)
Plate I, figure 2; Plates II, III and IV

Physsophora filiformis Forskål, 1775
Rhizophysa gracilis Fewkes, 1882b
Cannophysa murrayana Haeckel, 1888b
Cannophysa eysenhardti Mayer, 1894
?Cannophysa filiformis Mayer, 1894
Rhizophysa filiformis Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

This species was described and figured by Gegenbaur (1853a, b) from specimens up to one and a quarter feet in length taken at Messina. Fewkes (1883) recorded one from Bermuda that measured over three feet in length. Fewkes (1879) examined three specimens taken at Villefranche, and gave a good figure of a whole specimen. He also figured developmental stages of the tentilla and gonodendra. Small specimens 2–4 cm in length with 4–6 cormidia often occur in spring off Algiers in hauls from about 400 m.* These animals sting sharply.

Apical pneumatophore:   12 mm long, 6 mm diameter (Chun, 1897b), very muscular. No septa surrounding it, but very obvious hypocystic villi containing giant gas-gland cells (Pl. II, fig. 2), each from 1·5–2 mm in length are present in the secondary ectoderm. Chun measured their nuclei as being from 0·25–0·27 mm in diameter. A cap of red pigment round the apical pore.

Gastrozooid:   The colour of living specimens at Villefranche was pale green. They are 1–1½ inches apart with a tentacle at the upper side of the base. Tentilla of three types: (a) the most abundant form, the tricornuate. There is a hitherto undescribed web connecting each lateral branch to the central one (see Pl. IV, fig. 2). Ten or twelve tricornuate tentilla separate two of the next type (b) the dendritic or palmate, a developmental series of seventeen or more of which can be followed back on a single tentacle. Previous descriptions have not indicated the extent to which branchlets of the dendritic tentilla can expand (see Pl. IV, fig. 6). At one side of the distal end of the enlarged body of the dendritic tentillum, between the bases of the branches, is a hemispherical pigmented boss, reddish-brown in colour and covered with hair-like processes, resembling those that cover the ectoderm of the whole tentacle and the pedicels of all the tentilla. At the other side is an extensive opaque area of the ectoderm (c). The third type, known as the bird-headed or beaked tentillum (see Pl. IV, fig. 4) bears a bunch of rather longer processes with central enlargements, resembling those of the tentilla of the larval tentacle of Agalma elegans. I have seen as many as twenty-one tentilla of this type on a single tentacle of a young, 8 cm. long specimen. The tentacle bore five developed palmate and thirty-eight trifid ones. In five cases there were two successive tentilla of the bird-beaked type. The palmate tentilla did not expand in magnesium chloride as much as those of tentacles of larger specimens, and both the palmate and trifid tentilla bore areas of a light pink colour.

Gonodendron:   Kawamura (1910) stated that as distinct from Rhizophysa eysenhardti the gonodendron is attached directly to the underside of the gastrozooid and not isolated between two. I find that this is not so. Developed as subsequently elongating ovoid buds from the stem, halfway between two gastrozooids, the gonodendra give rise to about two dozen branches, each terminating in a palpon and a sub-terminal nectophore (Pl. II, fig. 3; Pl. III, fig. 4). There is no sub-terminal branchlet as in Physalia. There are half-a-dozen or so gonophores around each of the nectophores. It seems probable that the (reduced) jelly-polyp and its accompanying palpon in Physalia are homologous

[FOOTNOTE] * Personal communication from Dr. J. Cachon.

4

[NOTE: the bare "4" on the last line is a printer's signature mark at the foot of the page, not a folio. "1½" is printed as a stacked fraction. The query mark in "?Cannophysa filiformis Mayer, 1894" is the author's own, printed immediately before the genus name with no space.]
