[PAGE 158]

158	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

At first sight there seems to be no dorsal tooth, but it is obscured only because its sides descend instead of rising towards the ostium. It is visible in optical section, but is very much shorter than the lateral teeth. The apex of the nectosac is not constricted. The mouth-plate is divided – one of the species' primitive features. The hydroecium scarcely reaches up to the middle of the nectosac. The somatocyst is short, spindle-shaped, and reaches up to a point on the nectosac about one-quarter of its length from the apex.

Posterior nectophore (Pl. XXXIV, fig. 11):   Up to 28 mm in length (see Moser, op. cit., Taf. IX, fig. 4). The dorsal tooth is obscured in the same way as described above for the anterior nectophore. The pedicel is long and fine, the proximal part of its ventral side concave where it articulates with the baso-dorsal part of the hydroecial cavity.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXIV, fig. 12)

Up to 16 mm in length (see Moser, 1925, Taf. X). The margins of the bract which reaches a length of 3 mm are denticulate, but there is no large basal tooth. The phyllocyst is spindle-shaped or cylindrical, tapering at the apex. The sutural surface seen in optical section from the side makes almost a right angle with the adjacent part of the upper surface of the bracteal cavity. The gonophore, which is four ridged is truncate above, with an inconspicuous pedicel.

There is a square-shaped basal mouth-plate with a pair of lateral teeth, and two strong lateral ostial teeth. The dorsal tooth is obscured in the same way as described for that of the two nectophores. The manubrium reaches a length of 5–6 mm in a gonophore of 16 mm length. At a length of 4 mm a female gonophore has developed five eggs, but at maturity perhaps as many as thirty. There is no asexual swimming bell, but at least two secondary gonophores are budded.

The cnidosac of the tentillum measures about 0·27 mm in length and has a structureless horse-shoe-shaped covering (see Moser, 1925, Taf. X, figs. 5a, 5b) at its basal end where are found a pair of lateral groups of five larger spindle-shaped nematocysts measuring about 50μ in length.

Genus: LENSIA Totton, 1932

Type species: L. subtiloides (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908).

Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides L & van Riemsdijk, 1908

Small diphyid calyconects in which the anterior nectophore of the polygastric phase is basically pentagonal in cross-section but may carry three, five, seven, fifteen, or even more longitudinal crests. The short mouth-plate is divided, its baso-lateral corners not produced into conspicuous projections. The radial canals have no commissures (cf. fig. 85C and fig. 99), and the somatocyst is relatively short. The hydroecium is generally shallow. The posterior nectophore, where known, is truncated proximally, has a rounded mouth-plate and no conspicuous teeth. The lateral radial canals of the smaller posterior nectophore are not looped, but run a slightly sigmoid course. The eudoxid has no special swimming bell. Its bract has a broad, rounded posterior margin without baso-lateral teeth, and its gonophores are truncated proximally, have a small, inconspicuous dorsal tooth, and a very narrow rounded mouth-plate.

Only a few of the eudoxid phases of species of Lensia have been described. The identification of a particular eudoxid can as a rule only be made if in a plankton haul one species predominates. Subsequent reviewers will doubtless remove certain groups of species like L. fowleri, L. hardy and L. challengeri, which resemble each other more than they do the type species, to form new genera. But all species of Lensia have the characteristic unlooped lateral radial canals in the posterior nectophores, so that if new generic groupings are made they should form a small sub-family.

Because specimens are often small and poorly preserved they have been neglected. I made a hurried review during the last war of the material I had been working on for years so that the results would

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 158; Pl. XXXIV, fig. 11; 28 mm; Moser, op. cit., Taf. IX, fig. 4; Pl. XXXIV, fig. 12; 16 mm; Moser, 1925, Taf. X; 3 mm; 5–6 mm; 16 mm; 4 mm; 0·27 mm; Moser, 1925, Taf. X, figs. 5a, 5b; 50μ; Totton, 1932; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; L & van Riemsdijk, 1908; fig. 85C and fig. 99. The decimal point of "0·27" is a raised middle dot and its zero is an old-style figure at x-height. The ranges "5–6" use an en rule. "50μ" is printed with the Greek letter mu immediately after the numeral, with no space.]

[NOTE: the synonymy line reads "Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides L & van Riemsdijk, 1908" with "L" carrying no full point, against "Lens & van Riemsdijk" spelled out in the "Type species" line just above. As printed.]

[NOTE: the dash in "The mouth-plate is divided – one of the species' primitive features." is an en rule; "species'" carries a closing apostrophe only. "see" and "cf." are italic where they occur. "Genus: LENSIA" and "Type species: L. subtiloides" have a thin space before the colon in the printing, not reproduced here; "LENSIA" is bold italic capitals. "L. hardy" is as printed, without a terminal -i. "calyconects" is lower case here, against "Calyconects" on page 152. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

[NOTE: a short slanting stray ink stroke stands alone in the outer lower margin at the right, well below the last line of text, as on pages 156 and 157. It is not a legible character and is not transcribable text.]
