[PAGE 10]
[RUNNING HEAD] 10	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Physalia. I believe that this sort of phenomenon is due to a secondary masking of a more primitive arrangement, as Haeckel seemed to suggest.

Dislocation and Multiplication of Organs

This section starts with the proposition 'If our medusome theory is correct'. It is not! We need not follow his deduction from this false premise that nectophores, bracts and groups of palpons are replacement organs. However, he made the sound statement that he viewed each separate gonophore as a medusoid person which has lost mouth-opening and tentacles.

Haeckel then returned to the question of cormidia, 'monogastric and polygastric'. Here he introduced, as he loved to do, some rather useless terms not used since: Eudoxome, Ersaeome, Rhodalome, Athorome and Crystallome, all for cormidia which are either set free or not. One category, Ersaeome, is interesting since this type (which we now call an eudoxid) bears a 'special swimming-bell', i.e. an asexual medusoid.

Stem or Trunk

Here Haeckel compared a siphonophore with a hydroid, starting with the false premise that the siphonophore 'body' is a medusoid person. He rightly said that it was not logical to describe the stem of the Siphonophora as 'unbranched', but that forking or dichotomous ramification is absent.

Nectosome and Siphosome

This section contains the shocking suggestion that the nectosome in general represents the umbrella of a simple medusoid person and that the siphosome is the manubrium.*

Nectosomes of the Five Orders

Here the translator has not done Haeckel justice by writing of the pneumatophore as the 'swimming-bladder' instead of the 'float-bladder'. Although Haeckel correctly stated that a nectophore is the umbrella of a hydromedusa, he is quite wrong in stating that the pneumatophore is an invaginated and much modified umbrella. Garstang (1946) pointed out this error. Haeckel described briefly the arrangement of nectophores and pneumatophore in his five sub-orders. In his last sub-order, Auronectae, which we now regard as a family (Rhodaliidae) of the Physonectae, he gave an erroneous interpretation of the 'aurophore'. Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) gave the correct one (see p. 91).

Nectophores or Swimming-bells

Haeckel gave a simple description of structure, followed by a bad interpretation in terms of his 'Medusome Theory'.

Pneumatophore or Swimming-bladder

Haeckel gave a simple description of the morphology, nomenclature and origin and went on to say that it is on the presence in some physonects of septa uniting the endoderm of the pneumatocodon and the pneumatosaccus that Metschnikoff (1874) based his opinion that the entire air-chamber is to be regarded as an invaginated swimming-bell. Haeckel himself stated that the radial pockets between the septa represent the radial canals of a simple medusoid umbrella; this view is quite erroneous. He added that Leuckart (1875),† Claus (1878) and Chun (1887) regarded the 'air-chamber' (pneumatophore) as an independent medusoid person supposed to originate as a bud from the primary larva, which it certainly does not do. The antithesis between these two opinions culminates in the

[FOOTNOTE] * I traced the origin of nectosome and siphosome and discussed their significance in 1956 in a description of the ontogeny of Agalma elegans to which the reader is referred.
[FOOTNOTE] † I cannot trace this reference.
