[PAGE 196]

196	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

forms a deep cleft in the ventro-basal region. Its upper end reaches only two-thirds of the way up the nectosac. The stem is attached at its junction with the base of the pedicel of the somatocyst and the base of the pedicular canal on a rounded prominence at two-thirds of the height of the hydroecium. The somatocyst is divided into a broad two winged basal part that lies below the level of the apex of the nectosac, and a very fine long simple and terminal tube that reaches nearly to the apex of the nectophore.

Posterior nectophore:   Up to 40 mm length (see Bigelow & Sears (1937, fig. 48) ). The differences between that of multidentata and moserae have not been determined with certainty since there appear to be posterior nectophores of two kinds. One has markedly asymmetrical ventro-basal teeth and thick mesogloea separating the hydroecium from the nectosac. This will probably prove to belong to Ch. multidentata. There are three ridges at the apex, one dorsal and a pair of ventro-laterals, each of which divides dichotomously lower down, so that in the lower region there are six longitudinal ridges and six basal teeth. The dorsal ridge divides (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937) at a point 8% of the distance from apex to base. Each ventro-lateral divides at about 25% of the distance, apex to base, the lateral member of each pair continuing to run directly to the base, but the ventral member bending at first abruptly ventrad, then abruptly towards the base. In the upper region there is a pair of overlapping flaps, borne by the hydroecial wings, that close that part of the hydroecial canal. The pedicular canal, leading to the junction of the four radial canals, is given off some 5 mm below the junction to the 'Stiel-canal', and the pallial canal is continued below this point for about 6 mm (in a 30 mm long nectophore).

Eudoxid phase

The eudoxids of the two species cannot be identified and distinguished from one another. But the general shapes of bract, somatocyst and gonophore were described and figured by Leloup (1934, pp. 46–51, figs. 12–13). Both bract and gonophore are flattened dorso-ventrally. The somatocyst has a pair of longitudinal horns and a large median portion. The bract measures about 4 mm in length × 1·5 mm and its sides are recurved.

The pentagonal, flattened, gonophore measures about 7 mm in length × 4 mm. There is a dorsal (ventral sensu Leloup) ridge terminating in a minor tooth, and a pair of well developed laterals terminating in prominent teeth. The two ventral ridges form the sides of a shallow, gutter-like hydroecium and may sometimes unite in the apical region. The middle region of these ventral wings is little elevated. Above they form rounded projections seen en profile; below they are less marked, and end in small teeth a short distance above the ostium.

Chuniphyes moserae Totton, 1954
Plate XXXV, figure 2; text-figure 132A

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 132A):   Similar to that of Ch. multidentata. Moser evidently had a specimen of this species as a model for her (1925) Pl. 23, figure 1. Prior to 1954 differences between somatocysts had been noted, but not considered of specific significance. The criterion for specific identification is the somatocyst which in Ch. moserae is not expanded horizontally on its basal region, but is fusiform or spindle-shaped. The terminal part of the somatocyst is relatively shorter than in multidentata and bears short irregularly shaped side-branches. The hydroecium extends up nearly to the apex of the nectosac, and the enlarged basal part of the somatocyst generally overtops this apex. The dorso-lateral teeth may not be relatively so long as in multidentata. The points where the lateral and dorsal ridges diverge is relatively nearer to the apex of the nectophore in moserae.

Posterior nectophore:   Not at present distinguishable with certainty from that of multidentata.

[NOTE: the two per-cent signs on this page are printed with the solidus and the lower nought
set below the line of the upper one, in the older style; they are given as "%". Small stray
ink strokes stand in the left margin beside the fourth line of the first paragraph and
beside the "Polygastric phase" heading, and in the right margin beside the line ending
"gutter-like hydroecium".]
