[PAGE 2]
[RUNNING HEAD] 2	INTRODUCTION

My studies of larval and adult siphonophores, both alive and preserved, justify the recording of my conclusions about the general nature of these animals. First of all I will attempt a definition. The Siphonophora are holoplanktonic, asexual (larval) hydrozoan zooids or polyps that have a single tentacle, probably oral.* By giving rise to buds the zooids become asexual, larval nurse-carriers† (paedophores) of other polyps (larvae) and of the sexual (adult) medusoids as well as of other asexual (adult) medusoids (nectophores) that provide propulsion of the whole, or of separate parts, in all three sub-orders. The Order does not include the disconanth genera, Velella, Porpema and Porpita, in which there are no oral tentacles.

Thus a fully grown siphonophore is essentially an overgrown hydrozoan, oozooid polyp that remains juvenile and asexual, but carries around with it large numbers of other asexual, juvenile polyps (gastrozooids and palpons) as well as sexual adults (medusoid gonophores) and asexual adults (medusoid nectophores), all budded either from the original and often very much elongated oozooid, or from other juveniles. The adults may separate and become independent, usually in association with one or more of the secondary juveniles and with a protective buoyancy device (bract).

I first put forward this theory in 1960, in my 'Discovery' Report on Physalia, as the Paedophore Hypothesis. Furthermore, I think that the Siphonophora are only one of the groups of Hydrozoa, which have arisen during a comparatively recent radiation after a new type of neotenic organism, the actinula, had been evolved from the larvae of some proto-hydroid.

As far as I can ascertain from personal observation and a study of the vast literature, there are only about one hundred and thirty known species of Siphonophora. One can never be sure when and where to find living specimens. There are a few forms taken only once in the Canaries and off Ceylon by Haeckel, of which no preserved specimens are known, and which have never been seen again. In 1955 I followed in Haeckel's footsteps to Lanzarote, but was not lucky enough to find any of those particular, rare forms upon which he reported. The only 'Challenger' Expedition material still in existence consists of specimens of rhodaliids. I had never come across any other rhodaliid specimens until a few years ago the British Museum (Natural History) received from Dundee University one of the most perfect rhodaliid specimens known. Its great importance lay in the fact that it possessed bracts. The specimen had been lying at Dundee unknown to specialists for fifty years. An account of it (Stephalia corona) will be found on page 92.

The best known siphonophores, apart from Physalia, are those that can be found at the surface at places like Messina, Naples and Villefranche, generally at Villefranche after an upwelling of waters from about 200 metres to the surface.‡ The temperature of this upwelled water at say 20 metres in December is about 15·1°C–16°C, and the salinity about 37·80‰. This is one of the only clues we have to the conditions in which these animals live, apart from deductions made from the data given in 'Discovery' Station Lists where closing nets captured siphonophores.

Species found after upwelling in the Mediterranean include Apolemia uvaria, Forskalia edwardsi, Physophora hydrostatica, Agalma elegans, Halistemma rubrum, Nanomia bijuga, Hippopodius hippopus, Rosacea cymbiformis, and Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis. For similar knowledge about the rest of the siphonophores, except those that are commonly found near the surface in all oceans, like Lensia subtilis, Chelophyes appendiculata, Sphaeronectes spp. and Abylopsis tetragona, we are dependent upon closing net-hauls, in which, unfortunately, siphonophores usually occur broken into fragments.

[FOOTNOTE] * Libbie Hyman (1940, p. 370) disagrees.
[FOOTNOTE] † It is interesting to note that Kühn (1913) used the term 'Amme' (nurse) in connection with the polypoid phase in the Hydroida.
[FOOTNOTE] ‡ See Halim, Y. (1959). Observations sur l'hydrologie de la baie et du canyon de Villefranche-sur-mer. Vie et Milieu ix, fasc. 3, 1958.
