[PAGE 188]

188	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

(sensu Bigelow) does not reach the apex. The hydroecium is shallower than that of appendiculata, hardly extending above the level of the ostium. The mouth-plate, as I have observed it, is always divided, although Bigelow (1911b, p. 255) says that it is not. The dorsal ridge is short and confined to the basal end as in appendiculata.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 126):   It resembles that of Eudoxoides mitra, but lacks the dorso-apical notch found in that species.

Eudoxid phase

Very similar to that of C. appendiculata.

Genus: EUDOXOIDES Huxley, 1859

The generic name was used by Huxley for the eudoxid of E. mitra, which is the type species. Species in which the small pentagonal anterior nectophore has a complete dorsal ridge, but no conspicuous ostial teeth. The mouth-plate is divided, its baso-lateral angles produced into lancet-shaped wings. The lateral radial canals of the posterior nectophore form an apical loop.

Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley, 1859)
Plate XXXIII, figures 4, 5

Diphyes mitra Huxley, 1859
Diphyes gracilis Bedot, 1896 (non D. gracilis Gegenbaur, 1853 = Chelophyes appendiculata)
Diphyopsis diphyoides Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Diphyopsis mitra Bigelow, 1911b
Eudoxoides mitra Totton, 1932

A well-known species.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXIII, fig. 4)

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 12 mm in length (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 7, fig. 9). Not spirally twisted, with five serrate longitudinal ridges, all reaching the apex where they become smooth. There is a small baso-dorsal tooth but no laterals. The length of the part of the hydroecium below the ostial level is much greater than that of the part above. The hydroecium is truncate above, and the somatocyst is relatively short and pear-shaped. It reaches only to the mid-level of the nectosac. The mouth-plate is divided into two serrate wings, the outer angles acute, the distal edges concave. The left-hand (sensu Bigelow) wing is longer than the other and bears a secondary triangular flap or tooth (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 9, fig. 4).

Posterior nectophore (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 10, figs. 4, 5):   There is a characteristic notch between the apex and the pedicel – the apico-dorsal notch. The hydroecial canal is open except near the upper end where a broadening of the right hydroecial flap lies over a longer tongue-shaped broadening of the left to bridge the canal. There is a short basal prominence or tooth on the right, and a longer one on the left (sensu Bigelow). There is a prominence on the edge of each hydroecial flap about one-third of its length measured from the basal teeth.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXIII, fig. 5; text-fig. 127)

About 8 mm in length (see Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. VII, fig. 62; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 11, fig. 9 – as D. appendiculata). Some criticisms of published figures can be found in Totton, 1932, page 359. The bract has a deep cavity and a pear-shaped phyllocyst.

The sutural surface of the bract forms an acute angle with the dorsal wall of the hydroecial cavity, so that the pedicel of the gonophore is correspondingly long. The serrate left sutural ridge curves
