[PAGE 35]
[RUNNING HEAD] TERMINOLOGY	35

2.   Nematocysts and associated stinging apparatus.
i.   Tentillum – a side branch of a tentacle; either simple, or branched, e.g. in some cystonects; or consisting of a pedicel, involucrum (when present) and either a spirally twisted (unicornuate) cnidoband, a tricornuate body with a pair or more of lateral horns with or without a median terminal vehicle, e.g. in Agalmidae; or a closed sacculus containing elastic bands, cnidoband and other nematocysts, together with a terminal filament often provided with a disc-shaped sinker.
ii.   Involucrum – a fold round the base, or the whole, of a tentillum.
iii.   Cnidoband (Cnidotaenia, urticating band, Nesselband) – rows of sabre-shaped nematocysts forming the chief part of most stinging organs. It is often flanked basally by two rows of larger, bean- or sabre-shaped nematocysts.
iv.   Cnidosac, Cnidobattery (Sacculus, Nesselknopf, Bouton urticant) – pedicellate type of enclosed stinging organ formed by the tentilla of the Calycophorae.
v   Angle-bands (Elastische Bände) – extensile structureless filaments connecting the basal mesogloea of the cnidosac with the base of the terminal filament. On activation (? by hydrolysis) they cause the folded cnidoband to straighten and slap itself with its larger flanking nematocysts on to its prey.

3.   Nectophores and associated structures.
i.   Nectosac – the sub-umbrella cavity of a medusoid.
ii.   Ostium – the velar end of a nectophore.
iii.   Hydroecium – the hydroecial cavity (when present) in the nectophores of Calycophorae for housing the retracted stem with its associated structures. It lies on the ventral side.
iv.   Somatocyst – a caecal part of the common gastric cavity found in calycophoran nectophores. It is now thought to be a vestige of an original actinuloid tentacle (or bract) which has united with the nectophore. It may branch, e.g. in Praya spp.
v.   Canal System of nectophores and gonophores.
Pedicular canal – arises from the point of origin in the stem.
Radial canals – four meridional canals running from the pedicular to the circular canal.
Circular canal – uniting the distal ends of the radial canals.
Mantle canal (Mantelgefäss) – upper and lower diverticula of the pedicular canal at the point of entry into a nectophore or gonophore, e.g. in Rosacea spp. The muscular pedicular lamella is attached to its proximal wall. Very occasionally it lies embedded farther within the mesogloea of an agalmid nectophore. (See text-fig. 56, p. 104 of young nectophore of Forskalia leuckarti.)
Pallial canal – sometimes used for Mantle canal of a nectophore, sometimes for an apical part of it – thought to be homologous with the somatocyst.

Other terms used in this work are:

1.   Peduncle, Pedicel – interchangeable terms used for the foot-stalk of attachment of gastrozooids, palpons, nectophores and gonophores. The pedicel of a nectosac is the apical canal from which arise the four radial canals.
2.   Phyllocyst, Bracteal canal – part of the common gastric cavity occluded in some mature bracts.
3.   Central Organ – of uncertain origin. The central part of a larva of Hippopodiidae and Prayidae. Also the remains of the fragment of stem in an eudoxid, e.g. Prayidae.
4.   Nectostyle – area of attachment of larval type bracts of Physonectae, e.g. in Athorybia, and subsequent budding zone of the siphosome.

[NOTE: printed parenthetical query "(? by hydrolysis)" in item v of section 2 uses round brackets, not square; it is the author's own. In this copy the word "hydrolysis" inside that parenthesis is struck through by a single heavy horizontal ink line (a deletion mark on the page, not type); the word is still legible and is transcribed. Item v of section 2 is printed "v" with no full stop, unlike i–iv; so printed.]
