[PAGE 200]

200	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Well preserved specimens are not available, and figures such as those of Moser (1925, Taf. 2, figs. 1–3) must be used with caution. The pear-shaped nectosac is barely half the length of the nectophore, and lies wholly below the somatocyst, which is spindle-shaped below and lies obliquely to the main longitudinal axis. Apically the somatocyst is produced into a fine vertical tube.

Apart from the spots it is difficult to distinguish the anterior nectophore (with spots) from that of Thalassophyes crystallina Moser (without spots).

Posterior nectophore:   Not recorded.

[FIGURE]
A
H
F.h.
Gz
3mm
2
1
0
B
Som.
H
C.pa
F.h.
C
H

FIG. 136.   Thalassophyes crystallina Moser. Polygastric phase
A, lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 16, 'Discovery' St. 1588, 500–200 m; B, C, lateral and ventral views, × 16, of a specimen, 'Discovery' St. 102, 750–500 m
F.h = hydroecial fold; H = hydroecium; C.pa = pallial canal; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 72).
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 135A–C.)   Four-ridged with a neck shield, into which penetrate two lateral longitudinal horns of the somatocyst as in Chuniphyes spp. Ceratocymba spp. and some other Abylidae.

The phyllocyst in general resembles the somatocyst, but the main part is relatively shorter and deeper as seen en profile, and the terminal part relatively longer. The gonophore is five-ridged, and dorsal ridge being added as in Abylinae. The presence of opaque spots is the criterion for specific identification. There is an apical spot on the bract, a spot at the base of each dorso-lateral ridge of the bract, and a spot at each end of the two dorso-lateral ridges of the gonophore.

The phenomenon of opaque spots may prove to be comparable with blanching in Hippopodius.

Genus: THALASSOPHYES Moser, 1925

? Heteropyramis Moser, 1925

A monotypic genus for T. crystallina Moser, 1925.

It is quite probable that T. crystallina Moser will eventually prove to be the 'unspotted' form of

[HANDWRITTEN] the printed word "and" in "The gonophore is five-ridged, and dorsal ridge being added" is struck through in ink and a small "a" is written after it, with a stroke trailing off into the right margin — an ink correction of the printed text to "five-ridged, a dorsal ridge being added".

[NOTE: the query mark opening "? Heteropyramis Moser, 1925" is printed bare, without square
brackets; there are no printed square brackets anywhere on this page. The italic capital T of
"Thalassophyes crystallina" at the start of that line is over-inked, with a short stray stroke
above and to its left in the margin of the preceding line.]
