[PAGE 4]
[RUNNING HEAD] 4	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

1 except his sub-section 7 (p. 16) on reproductive organs. He stated that throughout the Hydrozoa these consisted of spermaria and ovaria, portions of the tissue of the wall of the hydrosoma (defined on p. 2 as the 'entire double walled body of the Hydrozoan . . . (e.g.) an Agalma three feet long') and 'more particularly of the ectoderm metamorphosed into spermatozoa or ova'. They are found, he said, in Hydra, Lucernaria, in many medusae, in Hydractinia, Coryne pusilla and Plumulariae in their simplest form, as pouches or sacs (called gonophores by Allman (1859) ) containing a diverticulum of the somatic cavity. 'The reproductive organs of both sexes in Cordylophora, the female organs of Stephanomia, Agalma, Athorybia, Forskalia, Apolemia and the male (sic) organs of Physalia exhibit,' he said, 'an interesting series of transitions from the simplest to the most complex condition of the genital apparatus in the Hydrozoa. For we find that in all these cases the reproductive organ is no longer simple, but that its investment has acquired more or less the structure of a nectocalyx, from whose walls those of the actual genital sac, the manubrium of Allman,* tend to become independent.'

Huxley said that he had identified in each order of Hydrozoa both sperms and eggs. The oocytes(?) measured from 0·004 inches to 0·005 inches in diameter. Fertilization in all those examined appeared to follow the description of Gegenbaur (1854) for Calycophorae and 'Physophoridae'. Huxley rightly appeared to doubt Gegenbaur's deduction that the larval nectophore in Calycophorae persisted as the distal (? posterior) one of the adult.†

Of ontogeny in 'Physophoridae' (Physonectae and Cystonectae) he said little was known except for some post-larvae of Physophora, Forskalia and Agalma described by Gegenbaur, and the larva of Physalia described by himself. He then proceeded to draw attention to the laws which in general govern the development of appendages upon the coenosarc. He compared the budding of new polypites, at or near the distal end in Hydroida with the budding on the proximal side of the old ones of new polypites, nectocalyces (nectophores) and reproductive organs and branches of tentacles of 'Physophoridae'; and of the same buds, excepting nectocalyces, in Calycophoridae, for instance in the Hippopodiidae.‡

Huxley outlined the simple development of gastrozooids and tentacles, palpons, nectocalyces (nectophores) and gonophores from buds. He repeated his idea, which seems now to be a mistaken one, that the course of evolution of gonophores has been towards the medusa stage instead of a regression from it. He cited only the Calycophorae and (footnote p. 27) Agalma elegans as the siphonophores which retain ('perfect') a free medusiform gonophore.

In section 2 Huxley summarized the seven ways in which these organs are grouped together in order to define seven groups of Hydrozoa, viz.: (1) Hydra, (2) Corynid hydroids, (3) Sertularian hydroids, (4) Calycophoran siphonophores, (5) Physophoran siphonophores, (6) Lucernariadae and (7) Craspedote medusae. As a scheme of classification to-day it is, of course, not good, particularly as it included Scyphozoa (Lucerneriadae) in the Hydrozoa.

Section 3 dealt with reproduction, and was written at the same time as Allman was preparing for publication two papers on the reproductive organs of the hydroids. Huxley adopted Allman's terminology as far as possible, though he made certain modifications in it. Twelve years later, Allman (1871)

[FOOTNOTE] * Allman evidently used the term gonophore originally for the gonadial tissue (in the form of a sac, for example, on the radial canal or stomach of a medusa). To-day, however, the term gonophore has come to denote a reduced or vestigial medusa. Even a sporosac is a reduced medusa, and it is not homologous with a gonadial pouch on the radial canal of a medusa as Huxley supposed. Allman in his Ray Society Monograph on the Hydroida (1871, p. 21, fig. 1) had introduced his generalized conception of a hydroid as if it were an adult, with a 'generative sac' emitted as an external bud from its side. By implication Allman seemed to suggest that a sac-like gonad evolved into a medusa. In fact the reverse is more likely to be true (see Libbie Hyman, 1940, p. 367). The regressive stages have been dealt with at length by Kühn (1913).
[FOOTNOTE] † We know now that in many it is caducous. I have evidence however, that it persists as the anterior nectophore in Abylidae.
[FOOTNOTE] ‡ The buds of new nectophores in Hippopodius arise from the foot stalks of the older ones, and in consequence they arise proximally and not distally as Huxley maintained. In my view those of physonects do the same thing, i.e. they bud from the foot stalks of predecessors.
