[PAGE 49]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 3 APOLEMIIDAE	49

[FIGURE]
pn
c.r.l
l.m
o
ped
t
l.m

FIG. 15.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur. Upper part of the nectosome of a Villefranche specimen to show the peduncle of the nectophore, and the unique type of tentacle, × 8.3
c.r.l = lateral radial canal, showing spur canals; l.m = muscular lamella; o = ostium; ped = peduncle; pn = pneumatophore; t = tentacle.
[/FIGURE]

lower part of the nectophore above. The uppermost of the fully formed nectophores embraces all the budding nectophores and the lower part of the pneumatocodon at the apex of the stem. The upper end of the muscular lamella, which as usual develops on the upper and lower sides of the nectophore-peduncle, reaches about half-way up the axial wall of the nectophore to a level a little above the point where the lateral radial canals branch off from the dorsal radial canal. The pedicular (peduncular) canal, which is rather difficult to locate (see text-fig. 15), is lower down and about half-way between the junction of the lateral radial canals and the lowermost part of the nectophore. The upper wall of this pedicular canal curves down gently from the dorsal canal to join the stem in a U-like curve. The lower wall of the pedicular canal is very short, and in separated nectophores is generally missing because the whole of the lower wall of the ventral radial canal, to which the lower half of the muscular lamella is attached, becomes torn away, leaving the exposed ventral canal in a long torn area at the base of the nectophore. This is confusing to anyone not familiar with the species.

Five or six special nectosomal tentacles (text-fig. 15), to which I have already referred, arise near the pedicular canal of each nectophore. The lateral radial canals form S-like bends. On the axial side of the upper bend of the S are a number of short irregular branches, found only in Apolemia.

[NOTE: the magnification in the caption is printed "× 8.3" with a baseline full stop, unlike the mid-dot decimals used in the body text.]
