[PAGE 98]
[RUNNING HEAD] 98	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Because of their transparency and very active movements these animals are difficult to examine. So the older descriptions did not include details of the bracts (for which see Leuckart, 1854; Totton, 1954). But Kölliker's account of F. edwardsi and Vogt's of Apolemia contorta – one and the same animal – enable one to recognize with certainty this common Mediterranean species. It is the only species of Forskalia about which we can up to now obtain a tolerably complete picture. It can often be examined alive under laboratory conditions at Villefranche and Naples.

There is no doubt about the existence of a second species F. leuckarti, but it was known in recent years chiefly from detached nectophores. A complete specimen is described on page 107.

There was some doubt, which I hope I have dispelled, about the existence of a third alleged Mediterranean species, F. contorta Milne Edwards, 1841. I maintain that it can be recognized by its gonodendra to be what Bedot called F. leuckarti. It was considered by Bedot (1893b) to be a distinct species. F. cuneata and F. tholoides are doubtful species.

It will be seen that the conclusions to which I have come about speciation in Forskalia are rather different from those reached by Bedot (1893b). This is simply because I agree with Leuckart (1854) in thinking that the specimens he had before him in 1854 (but not in 1853) were indeed the Stephanomia contorta of Milne Edwards (1841). There are two criteria which make possible the identification of this species. Milne Edwards clearly indicated one – the gonodendra – while Leuckart clearly indicated the other – the rete mirabile in the pedicel of the nectophore. I was lucky enough to recognize at Villefranche a museum specimen, probably the only one in existence, which exhibits both characteristics. The prior name of this species is contorta Milne Edwards. But because of a great deal of confusion in the synonymy of this genus, Bedot renamed Leuckart's – and Milne Edwards's species – leuckarti. I retain this name since it appears to be the modern practice not to change a synonymy when it has remained unchallenged for a long period of years.

Larvae of species of Forskalia have not been described as such as far as I recollect, but Claus (1863, Taf. XLVIII, figs. 30–35) figured as young physophorids what I believe to be larvae of Forskalia spp. I have observed similar living larvae at Villefranche, where they are often taken in the plankton. They can be identified as such by their possession of orange coloured pigment.

Those physonect polyps that the German pioneers used to call 'Tastern' and are now called palpons seem to have originated as gastrozooids but to have become morphologically degraded. Their physiology has not been studied as far as I am aware, but they certainly do not ingest food. Their single tentacles are simple instead of bearing branches like all other tentacles of gastrozooids, except those of Apolemia. There are no palpons in the Calyconectae except in Stephanophyes; and in the other calyconects the gonophores bud from the bases of gastrozooids, whereas in the Physonectae it is from the bases of the palpons that the gonophores arise.

In 1960, I described the development of palpons and gonophores in the cystonect, Physalia, where it can be seen clearly how the gonophores arise as buds from the pedicels of the palpons. In 1954 I showed how in Agalma elegans the gonophores arise at first from small prominences near the bases of the palpons on the sections of the stem (cormidia). Later, after elongation of these sections of the stem, the gonophores become more scattered. In Nanomia bijuga I have shown (text-fig. 35) how the bunches of gonophores arise from the bases of the palpons. In Forskalia the arrangement is essentially similar, but in this genus the protuberances from the bases of the palpons may become very much elongated. At first sight it was not easy to correlate the conditions found in the two species, F. edwardsi and F. leuckarti. In F. edwardsi the male gonophores arise from a large protuberance of the distal palpon, and the female ones from smaller protuberances of the more proximal palpons. In F. leuckarti the two bunches of female gonophores appear to arise from an enormously extended, terminally bifurcated protuberance, whereas the male bunch arises from a much smaller protuberance at its base. But careful analysis shows that it is the smaller male branch that is formed from the base of the distal palpon, while the elongated base of the female gonophores actually arises from the

[NOTE: printed folio 98 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 103, offset −5 holds. Single column, continuous prose, eight paragraphs; no headings, figures, tables, footnotes or signature mark. The page breaks off mid-sentence at "actually arises from the", continuing on the next page. The last sixth of the page is blank.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Punctuation as printed. (1) The parenthetical dashes are spaced en-dashes throughout: "Apolemia contorta – one and the same animal – enable"; "one – the gonodendra – while"; "the other – the rete mirabile in"; and "Bedot renamed Leuckart's – and Milne Edwards's species – leuckarti", where the second dash falls after "species" and not after "Edwards's", verified at 3x. (2) The figure range "30–35" is a closed en-dash. (3) "Milne Edwards's" takes 's after the s; "Leuckart's", "Kölliker's" and "Vogt's" likewise.

Type: the in-text cross-reference is set lower case roman as "(text-fig. 35)", hyphenated, and is not one of the small-capital "FIG." labels used under the figures themselves. Claus's plate is cited in German as "Taf. XLVIII" with roman numerals; "figs." is lower case roman. Italic: "see" in the first parenthesis; genus and species names ("F. edwardsi" four times, "Apolemia contorta", "Forskalia" five times, "F. leuckarti" four times, "F. contorta", "F. cuneata", "F. tholoides", "Stephanomia contorta", "contorta", "leuckarti", "Apolemia", "Stephanophyes", "Physalia", "Agalma elegans", "Nanomia bijuga"); the Latin terms "rete mirabile" and "cormidia". "Calyconectae" and "Physonectae" are roman, not italic. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman, not small capitals.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 98; 1854, 1954; page 107; 1841, 1893b; 1893b, 1854, 1854, 1853, 1841; 1863, Taf. XLVIII, figs. 30–35; 1960; 1954; text-fig. 35. Note the two different Leuckart years in one sentence — "before him in 1854 (but not in 1853)" — and that the internal page cross-reference is "page 107", spelt out, not "p. 107".

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the top right margin above the running head, a speck in the right margin level with "at Villefranche and Naples", a small double fleck in the right margin level with "Their single", specks in the right margin level with "recent" in the second paragraph and with "identifica-", and scattered inter-line specks in the long fourth paragraph. None is printed matter.]
