[PAGE 46]
[RUNNING HEAD] 46	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[NOTE: most of this page is set in two unequal columns – a narrow text column at the left and FIG. 13 with its caption occupying the right-hand column down almost to the foot. The last four lines of text run the full measure below the figure. Transcribed here as: left column, then the figure and caption, then the full-measure lines, then the footnote.]

Lesson copied the description of it (by Blainville) and named it Apolemia Lesueuria; and that he himself (Haeckel) obtained in 1878 at Paris, owing to the kindness of Professor Perrier, a copy of Lesueur's beautiful plate, and on comparing it with the Mediterranean Apolemia uvaria was convinced that these two forms were not identical as previous observers had supposed, but belonged to different species or even genera. By 'the Mediterranean Apolemia uvaria', Haeckel evidently meant the species as described by Kölliker, Vogt, Gegenbaur, Leuckart and Claus. But of course Lesueur's specimen too was taken in the Mediterranean, at Nice. Haeckel then submitted that what was virtually the type specimen from Nice differs from those taken by Vogt at Nice and by the others at Messina in various ways such as being monoecious, having no marked internodes and not being densely covered with innumerable bracts – which is nonsense. He then 'renamed' Lesueur's species Apolemia uvaria: Apolemopsis lesueuria.

Haeckel then referred to an apolemiid which Mertens observed and figured in the Caroline Islands, and which Brandt described in 1835 as Apolemopsis dubia. I have made several attempts to discover if this and other unpublished figures made by Mertens are still extant, but without success. Since the publication of the wonderful, partly engraved figure by Lesueur in (?) 1811, we have had accounts and figures by Eschscholtz (1829), an account by Risso (1826), accounts and figures by Costa (1836), Kölliker (1853), Leuckart (1853, 1854), Gegenbaur (1853), Vogt (1854) and Claus (1863) and the notes by Haeckel (1888). Since Haeckel's time there seems to have been no systematic work published on this interesting species except that of Iwantzoff (1896) on the nematocysts. We are still uncertain about some morphological details, especially about the brown palpons. I feel almost sure that Haeckel's (1888b) Dicymba diphyopsis is really the same animal.

Our detailed knowledge is derived almost entirely from a study of Mediterranean specimens. The pioneers who worked on living siphonophores all did so either at Messina or at Villefranche, where upwelling waters bring them up from the deeper water-masses. It is unfortunate for those who work at Villefranche, in particular, that these upwellings are so infrequent.* A prolonged stay there may be necessary if one wishes to see this species.

Since Apolemia uvaria may reach, vide Prof. A. Trégouboff (1957), a length of 20 metres or more and because only a part of such a specimen can be caught by the method hitherto adopted, namely by engulfing the specimen in a large glass vessel dipped under the surface, it seems probable that the part most likely to be taken in this way is the forward end carrying the float and

[FIGURE]
FIG. 13.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur
Whole animal, nat. size (after Gegenbaur, 1853b, from Totton & Fraser, 1955, fig. 3).
[/FIGURE]

nectocalyces. But it is just in this anterior region that the gonophores are not well developed. It is to be hoped that future collectors especially aqualung divers, will take the hindmost part where the gonophores are likely to be ripe. We know nothing about the larvae, which should be very interesting.

[FOOTNOTE] * Halim, Y., 1959: Vie et Milieu IX, fasc. 3, 1958, 278.
