[PAGE 164]

164	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Sars (1846, p. 44) described how the eudoxids broke loose from the stem and swam freely.

The saccus of the tentillum was figured by Kefferstein and Ehlers (1861, Taf. III, fig. 10). The figure shows that there is a pair of lateral groups of four larger nematocysts near its base measuring about 53μ × 7μ.

For the benefit of any field worker in the Mediterranean, the eudoxid of this species may be distinguished from the common eudoxid of Chelophyes appendiculata by its larger size; the fact that the bract of the eudoxid of conoidea lacks the distinct cavity found in appendiculata, the fact that the gonophore of conoidea has a truncate articulating end and lacks the long peduncle of appendiculata.

Colour:   Gastrozooids and tentilla sacs are rose-red.

Progression:   Sars recorded that the two nectophores provided rapid propulsion. Each contraction propelled the animal forward for from 10–12·5 cm. When stationary, the tentacles are relaxed and extended.

Lensia multicristata (Moser, 1925)
Text-figure 99B

Galeolaria multicristata Moser, 1925
Diphyes bigelowi Browne, 1926
Lensia profunda Totton, 1936 nomen nudum

A comparatively large, common and easily recognizable seven-ridged Lensia well described and superbly figured by Bigelow (Bigelow & Sears, 1937, fig. 40–44). Some of the ridges may escape observation in unstained material (see Bigelow 1911b, Pl. 12, fig. 2, as Muggiaea kochii). The last review was that of Bigelow & Sears (1937).

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 99B):   Seven longitudinal ridges. The ventro-laterals reach neither apex nor basal margin. The laterals terminate slightly above the basal margin. A small hydroecial cavity lying below the level of the ostium. Basal margin of ventral facet rounded. Both halves of mouth-plate have a small projection at the inner angle. Somatocyst (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937, p. 58, fig. 43) 'slim, fusiform or linear, usually with a more or less definitely defined and thread-like stalk'. Its length equals about 40–45% of the length of the nectophore measured from apex to ostium.

Posterior nectophore (see Leloup, 1934, p. 34, fig. 8):   Five longitudinal ridges, the laterals not reaching the ostial margin. Hydroecium shallow distally. Mouth-plate wide, short rounded with a slight median notch. At the proximal end of the right hydroecial fold there is a small tongue-shaped projection. Lateral radial canals follow a somewhat sigmoid course.

Eudoxid phase – undescribed.

A large number of new records were published by Totton (1954, p. 11[?2]).

[NOTE: in the line "Totton (1954, p. 11...)" the final digit of the page number is
crossed by a heavy stray ink stroke (a hair or fibre on the scanner glass) and cannot
be read with certainty; "2" is the best reading. A small isolated stray mark also sits
in the blank space after the closing full stop of that sentence.]

Lensia hunter Totton, 1941
Text-figure 101B, C (p. 166)

Another seven-ridged Lensia easily separated from the last by its somatocyst. It has been found again on many occasions since first described.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 101B):   The dorso-lateral ridges do not meet the ostial margin. The ventro-laterals do not reach the apex, but meet the lateral edges of the mouth-plate. The basal wall of the hydroecium on the ventral side of the pedicel of the somatocyst curves off gradually to the
