[PAGE 9]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	9

I have never seen a detailed criticism of the thirteen points of Haeckel's theory. Points 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 13 are grossly erroneous in statement of facts. Points 10, 11 and 12 are observational or terminological, and hardly find room in theory. Points 3 and 5 do not refer to Siphonophora sensu stricto. All thirteen points refer to larvae as medusae ('medusomes') and point 7 summarizes the theory in stating that 'all the parts which arise by budding from the primary larva of the Siphonophorae ("always a simple medusa", see point 1) are either medusiform persons or special organs of the same'.

It is really astonishing that Haeckel, who made a great study of medusae, should have concluded that the larva of Physophora hydrostatica was a medusa. It is not organized like one and the resemblance is very superficial. It is a particularly active little larva and was beautifully depicted by Vogt (1854); it occurs abundantly at Villefranche, where I have examined numerous living specimens (see text-fig. 47, p. 85) in various growth stages. I am convinced as the result of my own observations – Garstang (1946) had already drawn attention to Haeckel's mistaken deductions – that what Haeckel (1869) took for a split medusan umbrella is really the bract-homologue of a tentacle of an actinuloid larva.

Siphonula larva of the Siphonanthae (= Physonectae)

Haeckel erroneously called the siphonula larva 'medusiform' although he rightly says that it is bilaterally symmetrical. He said that 'the original circle of tentacles on the umbrella-margin had disappeared; in all cases only a single capturing filament (Fangfade) persists, the primary unilateral larval tentacle, which in consequence of the ventral umbrella-cleft has been shifted centripetally to the base of the gastral tube. The primary umbrella itself (Protocodon) has, in consequence of this unilateral development, become bilateral; it develops in the Calyconectae (or Calycophoridae) into the primary swimming-bell, in the other three orders (Physonectae, Cystonectae and Auronectae) into the pneumatophore' (pp. 5–6).

As to the 'ventral umbrella-cleft', Haeckel mistook the larval bract of Physophora – homologous with an actinuloid tentacle – for the cleft umbrella of a medusa. What he called the 'primary umbrella (Protocodon)' is really the pneumatocyst, which in Physophora he wrongly thought was part of the bract – an error of observation.

The only significant and true facts that he gave about the siphonula larva are: (1) the different siphonulas are very similar; (2) the primary gastrozooid develops into the stem (there are no monogastric physonects) from which all the other persons of the colony proceed by lateral budding; (3) the 'whole structure . . . suggests the closest relationship with the Anthomedusae, and especially with the family Codonidae'; some of his reasons for this opinion are perhaps unsound, for instance that this relationship is corroborated by the marked tendency of many Anthomedusae to form medusa by direct budding from the gastral tube.

Corm and Cormidia

Under this heading Haeckel made the rather misleading suggestion that siphonophores are pre-eminently characterized by the development of a 'corm' or colony composed of several 'individuals proper'. Many people have erroneously thought a siphonophore arose from the union of separate individuals. In fact Haeckel himself talked of a Cormus compositus 'formed from the union of several individual groups of persons'.

'Ordinate Cormidia, Dissolved Cormidia'

Haeckel defined ordinate cormidia as 'metameres of the jointed stem or cormaxis', and by dissolved cormidia he meant those individual gonophores, for instance in Agalma elegans which appear to bud separately from the stem, instead of forming part of a complex gonodendron, as for example in

2
