[PAGE 34]
[RUNNING HEAD] 34	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

A.   Oozooid consists primarily of:
1.   Protozooid – primary, terminal gastrozooid. This is the term usually applied to the gastrozooid at the oral end of the juvenile siphonophore, and in the mature cystonect and physonect.
2.   Pneumatophore or Float – when present, it forms the invaginated, aboral organ, with an outer wall, the pneumatocodon and an inner wall, the pneumatosaccus, pneumatocyst or air-sac, which contains the gas-gland. The apex of the pneumatophore is either closed, or guarded by a sphincter muscle. A baso-lateral pore may be present, e.g. Physophora, Rhodaliidae.
3.   Stem – the budding zone of the proximal part of the protozooid from which arise the polyps and medusoids. It can be in two parts, generally on opposite sides of the float – the nectosome (which may be very short, e.g. Diphyidae) from which are budded the nectophores; and the siphosome, from which are budded the gastrozooids, palpons, bracts and gonophores.

As development proceeds, the following polypoid and medusoid persons are budded from the oozooid, or from secondary polyps:

B.   Secondary polyps – larval forms.
1.   Gastrozooids (Siphons) – feeding polyps with only a single tentacle arising from the base of the gastrozooid. The tentacle is long, contractile with (except in Apolemia) lateral branches, or tentilla, each forming a sub-terminal battery of nematocysts. The base of the gastrozooid is enlarged into a nematocyst producing area, the basigaster.
2.   Palpons (feelers, tasters) – reduced gastrozooids with a simple tentacle, a palpacle.
3.   Gonozooids, Gonopalpons – gastrozooids or reduced gastrozooids associated with a gonodendron, but with no tentacle. Rather an imprecise category.
4.   Bracts – perhaps modified palpons with enlarged mesogloea, for protection and buoyancy.
5.   Gonodendron – a complex, derived by budding from an original palpon, of other palpons, gonophores and sometimes (e.g. Cystonectae) asexual nectophores.
C.   Medusoids – the real adults.
6.   Gonophores – small male or female medusae, functional or reduced, without tentacles; codonid-like, or styloid.
7.   Nectophores (nectocalyces) – swimming-bells, asexual medusoids; sometimes reduced to
8.   'Jelly-polyps' – vestigial nectophores, found only in Physalia.

There remain some terms relating to the Siphonophora which it may be useful to define more fully.

1.   Pneumatophore or Float and associated parts.
i.   Pneumatocodon (Luftschirm) – the outer three-layered wall of the invaginated float.
ii.   Pericystic cavity – the space between the pneumatocodon and the pneumatocyst, often traversed by septa.
iii.   Pneumatocyst, Pneumatosaccus (Luftflasche, Luftsac) – the three-layered, invaginated gas-containing part of the float, lined above by chitin, and below by secondary ectoderm that grows up from the gas-gland and lies over the chitinous lining.
iv.   Pneumadenia – the three-layered gas-gland of the invaginated pneumatocyst – a specialized part of the wall of the pneumatosaccus.
v.   Pneumatochone (air-funnel, Lufttrichte) – the basal cylindrical part of the chitinous lining of the pneumatosaccus, with the enclosed part of the pneumadenia.
vi.   Hypocystic villi – outgrowths containing giant ectodermal cells, said to have a diameter of up to 2 mm, arising from the pneumadenia and often penetrating the septa that cross the pericystic cavity.

[NOTE: the numbered list under B runs 1–5 and then continues 6–8 under heading C, as printed. Item 7 ends "sometimes reduced to" with no terminal punctuation, running on into item 8 on the next line; so printed.]
