[PAGE 1]

INTRODUCTION

This synopsis attempts to gather together our knowledge of the anatomy and ontogeny of the various species of siphonophores, and to throw light on their characteristic organization and their probable origin. As this is a synopsis and not a full length monograph, no sections on Histology and Physiology have been included. Furthermore, there is no section on the distribution of the group, although in the course of sorting plankton collections, voluminous data on distribution have been recorded. But the completion of the synopsis has been considered a matter of some urgency, and therefore time and opportunity to work out these data have not been permitted to me.

The decision as to which so-called 'species' to include and which to exclude is based not so much on published descriptions, which are often inadequate for identification, as on my own knowledge of the animals themselves. For this reason I have given a rather longer treatment to some hitherto less well known forms on which I have been working in recent years. There are very few known species, individuals of which I have not examined myself, which are not represented in the unrivalled collection that I have built up at the British Museum (Natural History). It should be stated at once that the basis of the collection is the very extensive accumulation of plankton, still partly unexamined, made by the ships of the 'Discovery' Committee (collections now incorporated in the National Institute of Oceanography).

It should be borne in mind too that it has only been possible to review the vast literature at first-hand because of the proximity of the magnificent library at the Museum. It is fitting here to pay my tribute to the illustrious workers of the past in this special field. On the foundation of their pioneering work we are now able to build. Among living specialists from whose work I have profited most, I would mention especially Dr. H. B. Bigelow and his co-worker Dr. Mary Sears, and also Dr. E. Leloup. There seem to be all too few of these specialists to-day. This is due, no doubt, to the difficulty of obtaining adequate material. Vast collections of plankton, of which siphonophores generally constitute a large part, in Canada, America, England and elsewhere are still awaiting the attention of specialists, but unfortunately there seems to be no adequate organization for sorting this material. It is only exceptionally that comparatively complete specimens of forms other than diphyids are taken. In the majority of species there are still large gaps in our knowledge of the life-cycle.

The relatively few species of siphonophores fall obviously into one of three sub-orders:

(1) Cystonectae Haeckel, 1888;
(2) Physonectae Haeckel, 1888; and
(3) Calycophorae Leuckart, 1854.

In order to understand the mature form of these complex marine animals, it is very necessary to look at their simple, larval or post-larval growth stages. I have spent some years searching for these larvae, both in the preserved plankton samples taken by the Royal Research Ships 'Discovery', 'Discovery II' and 'William Scoresby', as well as in tow-nettings I have made at Villefranche and off Lanzarote. On several occasions, not always successful, at Villefranche, I have tried to obtain larvae by fertilizing the eggs of various siphonophores.

1
