[PAGE 122]

122	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Eudoxid phase

The bracteal canal system has the typical four main branches but no median 'central organ' such as is found in Desmophyes.

There are two well-known species, dubia Quoy & Gaimard and reticulata (Bigelow). Their bracts have not been differentiated for certain owing to the fact that at stations such as 'Discovery' St. 2635 in 10° 19′S, 09° 36·4′E, where well preserved bracts have been found, nectophores of both species have been found also. It appears likely that in P. reticulata the tip of the right hydroecial (lateral) canal is recurved, and that the dorsal canal is longer and more recurved than in P. dubia. The bracts may measure up to 20 mm × 10 mm, and 4 mm. The Praya type of tentillum was beautifully figured by Bigelow (1931, fig. 189), but the specific identification for this figure may be in doubt. The measurement of the large lateral nematocysts in this figure correspond well with those of similar ones from 'Discovery' St. 2635, namely 220μ long, 15μ diameter.

Praya dubia (Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834)

Plate XXIII, figures 6, 7

Diphyes dubia Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834, page 104, plate 5, figures 34–36
Praia dubia Blainville, 1834
Nectodroma dubia Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925
Praya dubia Bigelow, 1931

The following description is taken largely from Bigelow (1911b).

Polygastric phase

Younger nectophore: About 40 mm long, 33 mm broad, obliquely truncate above, ventral wall extending below the level of the opening of the nectosac. Hydroecial groove deep, running the entire length of the nectophore, partially closed over above by a small gelatinous flap, and entirely enclosed below by two lateral flaps.

The somatocyst is extended by a system of branching canals. Below the point of origin of the pedicular canal it runs as a single unbranched tube along the dorsal wall of the hydroecium to a point slightly below the opening (ostium) of the nectosac. The ascending trunk, which may bear several short transverse branches, divides into three near the upper end of the nectophore. The simple median branch runs directly dorsad. The two laterals curve down with several minor, lateral branches, to terminate slightly above the apex of the nectosac. The sub-umbral (radial) canals number about twelve at the apex, branching distally to form about fifty at the margin. They are not interconnected as they are in reticulata.

Older nectophore: Up to 85 mm long, 50 mm broad. The somatocyst and radial canals are similar to those of the younger one. There may be at least three reserve nectophores.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 70.) Not hitherto recorded as such. I am inclined, however, to think that the bract figured by Bigelow (1931, fig. 185) coming from Monterey Bay, California (Bigelow & Leslie, 1930) and labelled P. reticulata really belongs to P. dubia.

The right hydroecial canal is not recurved at the tip as it is in P. reticulata, nor is the dorsal bracteal canal so long and recurved and the ventral bracteal canal C4 is not branched as in the original figure of the bract of P. reticulata.

[NOTE: the "4" of "C4" in the last paragraph is printed as a superscript.]

[NOTE: "36·4′" in the second paragraph is printed with a raised, mid-height decimal point, reproduced here as "·"; the minute marks after "19" and "36·4" are printed as prime marks.]

[NOTE: the word "not" in "They are not interconnected" carries a short hand-drawn underline (an annotation, not printed rule).]

[NOTE: a few faint stray specks and short strokes appear in the outer (left) margin beside the lower half of the page; none is legible as writing.]
