[PAGE 206]

206	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Ceratocymba sagittata (Quoy & Gaimard, 1827)
Plate XXXVII, figures 1–4; text-figures 140, 141A, C

For synonymy see Sears (1953), page 63

Polygastric phase (text-fig. 140)

Anterior nectophore:   With a very long narrow pyramidal extension (E.P.) so that the apical facet characteristic of abylines is not obvious. The nectosac is very long and tubular, about twice as long as the hydroecium, whose length is, according to Sears, about one-third of the overall length of the nectophore.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 141B, D):   With a characteristic elongate left-hand (right sensu Sears, 1953) ventral tooth which is much longer than that of the opposite side. For an extended description see Sears (1953). The ventral teeth are not shown in the figure.

Eudoxid phase (see Sears, 1953, fig. 18B)

The bract has a concave apical facet and prominent lateral horns. It can readily be identified by the left lateral ridge which always joins the posterior margin. It usually does not reach the apico-dorsal ridge, though Sears (1953) has noted specimens in which it does so.

The gonophore, when well preserved, may be recognized according to Sears (1953) by: (1) the relatively small inconspicuous hook arising from the right ventral ridge and curved in toward the floor of the hydroecium; (2) the presence of serrations extending well above the level of this hook on the margin of the left ventral wing; (3) a very weak inconspicuous dorsal tooth; and (4) the lateral apical ridge next to the wall of the bract is deeper than the opposite exposed one.

[FIGURE]
T.D.
T.v.l.
S
E.p.
N.s.

FIG. 140.   Ceratocymba sagittata Q. & G. Polygastric phase. Two interlocking nectophores of a 45 mm long specimen, × 3·7, 'Discovery' St. 284.   E.p. = Pyramidal extension; N.s. = Nectosac; S. = Somatocyst; T.D. = Dorsal tooth; T.v.l. = Left ventral tooth.
[/FIGURE]

Ceratocymba intermedia Sears, 1953

Although I feel very doubtful about the specific identity of this form I quote it on the authority of Dr. Sears who has stated her reasons for considering it as specifically different from C. dentata and C. sagittata.

Dr. Sears cites three specimens or figures: (1) Bigelow (1911b), plate 12, figure 7, anterior nectophore, 7 mm in length. Specimen no longer available. (2) Moser (1925), plate 15, figure 3, anterior nectophore, 5 mm in length. Whereabouts of specimen unknown. (3) Sears (1953), text-figure 22, anterior nectophore, 7 mm in length, mutilated, deposited in Universitets Zool. Mus. København: the type specimen. Sears argument appears to be that though (1) and (2) were naturally thought to be young specimens of C. sagittata yet in her experience of considerable numbers of young anterior nectophores of C. sagittata the definitive shape found in that species has been established in every case before reaching the length of 5 mm. I feel that specimens (1) and (2) may possibly be the exceptions. I cannot at this time give any data which would throw light on the subject. The question of associa-

[HANDWRITTEN] a caret (^) is inked above the line at the end of "…(right sensu", at the right-hand edge of the type measure, with no insertion written beside it.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. In the text the pyramidal extension is
abbreviated "(E.P.)" with a capital P, while the figure caption gives it as "E.p."; both are
so printed. A faint stray dot stands after "Sears, 1953)" in the "Posterior nectophore"
paragraph.]
