[PAGE 31]
[RUNNING HEAD] PHYLOGENY	31

polyps alone came to retain this function; that these polyps were reduced during the growth of the medusoid gonophores finally to vestigial blastostyles. The last stage of this reduction process may be represented perhaps in physonects like Agalma elegans, where, although in the mature state individual gonophores appear to arise singly from the stem, in earlier growth stages it can be seen that they arise from certain loci, which may be the final vestiges of blastostyles. As growth and elongation of the stem takes place, the points of attachment of the gonophore-pedicels can also be seen to separate from one another.

Much has been written on this subject since Huxley's (1859) and Allman's (1871) days, and it is necessary to consult their work to ascertain what exactly they meant by such terms as gonoblastidium, ectotheca, perigonium, gonangium, sporosac, planoblast, gonocheme, gonophore, zooid, hydranth, blastocheme and blastostyle. Various opinions about the interpretation of these structures have been put forward by such workers as Weissmann (1883), Goette (1907), Kühn (1910, 1913), Goto (1910), Delsman (1911) and others. Here it is necessary only to quote Allman's (1871, p. xv) definition of the term blastostyle: 'a columniform zooid destined to give origin to generative buds' and perhaps amend it to read: 'the base of a columniform zooid . . .'

It is not appropriate here to re-examine the Hydroida, nor to give a review of the voluminous literature, but there is abundant evidence for deducing that in that Order there has been reduction of the free-swimming, sexually mature medusa-phase to a sessile sac that still shows signs of varying amounts of meduoid organization – the view held by Kühn (1913). I hold the opinion that it is quite unrealistic to deduce all sessile sporosac- and other medusoid-gonophores from stages in the evolution of free-swimming medusae.

In 1946, Garstang pointed out that the actinula of the gymnoblastic hydroids is 'merely a planula with precocious adult character'; that it is 'provided with additional yolk so that it develops some at least of the future polyp tentacles as well as a mouth before its liberation' (p. 144). He went on to suggest that the original larva of the siphonophore ancestors was an actinula.* My own study of the larvae of representatives of all the major siphonophore groups has led me to endorse Garstang's work. Furthermore, as already stated on page 2, I think that the Siphonophora was only one of those groups which arose, during a comparatively recent radiation, after this new type of neotenic organism, the actinula (text-fig. 11), had been evolved from the larva of some proto-hydroid. This view was first put forward by me in 1960 as the Paedophore Hypothesis. It is, of course, axiomatic that forms alive to-day cannot be derived from one another, but only from precursors in the past, which unless they have survived as rare forms, are likely to have evolved into something different.

In my view, therefore, it is essential to bear in mind that the fully grown siphonophore oozooid is really an over-grown asexual polyp, which never itself takes on the adult hydrozoan form – the sexual medusa – but gives rise to it by budding. The reverse phenomenon is never seen in the Hydrozoa: a medusa never† truly gives rise by budding to a polyp, which always develops from an egg or from another polyp, thus demonstrating, in my view, the polyp's larval character. It is permissible to call both polyps and medusae 'zooids', but I retain the word polyp when I wish to stress the larval significance.

It is essential also to understand that the long axis of a fully grown physonect, even many metres long, carries at one end the original larval mouth of the oozooid (text-fig. 7D, p. 24), and its invaginated aboral float at the other. The word 'colony' is misleading when applied to the Siphonophora for it calls to mind the creeping, branching colonies of the hydroids.

[FOOTNOTE] * See pages 15–16 for a fuller discussion of Garstang's views.

[FOOTNOTE] † The only exception known to me came to light after writing this. Kramp published in Vidensk. Medd. dansk. naturh. Foren. Kbh., 124, 1962, p. 344; figures of a peculiar polypoid structure growing out of the stomach-wall of the limnomedusan Proboscidactyla ornata (McCrady).

[NOTE: "meduoid organization" is so printed (no "s"); transcribed as printed. A small stray ink mark sits over the colon in "in the Hydrozoa:" at the end of a line, and another speck between "(1871)" and "days".]
