[PAGE 30]
[RUNNING HEAD] 30	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

freed as eudoxids), the first budded gonophore of a single group may be of one sex and the second budded of the other sex; or all the gonophores of a single group may be unisexual (text-figs. 83, 84, pp. 145–146).

These medusoid adults, the gonophores, may be either free-swimming codonid medusae, as in physonects and calycophores, or reduced cryptomedusoid or styloid medusoids which are not individually freed, but may possibly become freed as the terminal part of the complex gonodendra of the cormidia, as in cystonects.

I have observed ripe male gonophores of a freely swimming diphyid emitting a continuous jet-stream of sperms into the water, until the manubrium of the gonophore shrank to a vestige. No detailed description or good figures of the spermatozoa or their maturation are known to me. Vogt (1854) figured the head only in plate 10, figure 31. I was fortunate in February 1963 to obtain a specimen of Halistemma rubrum, two feet long, with ripe male gonophores and I was able with great difficulty to examine the live sperms. I could see that the tail was fifteen times as long as the head, and that Vogt's figure of the head is a good representation of its appearance (text-fig. 10C).

The siphonophore egg is spherical, transparent and contains a large quantity of yolk. Often gonophores produce only one egg. The diameter of the eggs of Halistemma rubrum, in the specimen just mentioned, was about 0·7 mm. Early cleavage and development of the siphonophore eggs has been described by Haeckel (1869), Metschnikoff (1874), Chun (1882), Lochmann (1914) and more recently by Russell (1938) in a beautifully illustrated paper on the ontogeny of Muggiaea atlantica.

From the work of these authors, it appears that the development of the egg up to the appearance of the rudiment of the larval bract, or of the precocious nectophore takes place rather more slowly in the Physonectae than in the Calycophorae. The development of the egg in the Cystonectae has not been studied; the earliest known larval stages are those of Physalia (Totton, 1960). In all the species of physonects and calycophores examined, segmentation is regular and results in the formation of an elongated, ciliated, planuloid-actinula larva. According to Haeckel (1869), this process in the physonects Physophora, Agalma and Athorybia takes place about the third day and by the fifth day a larval bract is well developed in the first two species, but in Athorybia this occurs about the seventh day. Metschnikoff (1874) studied Agalma and Nanomia, and the calycophores Sulculeolaria and Hippopodius as well. His results coincide with those of Haeckel for Agalma, and he pointed out that in Nanomia no larval bract is developed, and that by the sixth day rudimentary siphosomal buds have appeared. In Sulculeolaria and Hippopodius, the precocious nectophore appears about the fifth day, but in the calycophore Muggiaea, its development is more rapid. Two species, M. kochi and M. atlantica, were studied, the first by Chun (1882) and the second by Russell (1938), and the latter stated that the course of development was the same in both. By the third day in atlantica, 'all signs of the original planula* have disappeared and the primary nectophore is fully developed, with somatocyst, siphon, tentacle . . . and the rudiment of the secondary nectophore' (Russell, loc. cit., p. 433) (see text-fig. 3). Once the rudiments of buds have been developed, the ensuing sequence of events results in the formation of the physonect or calycophore larva described on pages 20–25.

PHYLOGENY

The structural homologies between hydrozoan polyps and medusae are explained in any good text-book. The two phases have evolved from one another at different rates in different groups. It may be that originally the larval polyp metamorphosed into the adult medusa, and that later in ways not visualized as yet the sexually mature medusa arose by budding from the asexual larva. I myself imagine that all polyps of a hydrozoan stock once gave rise by budding to medusae; that then certain

[FOOTNOTE] * Except its oral half which develops into the protozooid.

[NOTE: a stray thin curved ink mark (scan or page blemish, not type) sits above the letters "oma" of the broken word "soma-tocyst" near the foot of the main text.]
