[PAGE 66]
[RUNNING HEAD] 66	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
c.d
c.l
c.ped
c.v
5mm
5mm
A
B

FIG. 30.   Marrus orthocanna (Kramp). Nectophore
A, lateral view; B, upper view
c.d = dorsal, c.l = lateral, and c.v = ventral radial canals; c.ped = pedicular canal.
[/FIGURE]

Genus: MOSERIA gen. n.

Monotypic genus for Stephanomia convoluta   Moser, 1925.

As Moser (1925) suspected the type species has no close link with other species for which the name Stephanomia has been used.

A genus with only one little known antarctic species whose nectophores are exceptionally thin in comparison with length and breadth. The pneumatophore is of peculiar construction, consisting of two chambers besides the pneumatosaccus. The tentilla are involucrate and unicornuate, as in Halistemma.

At the time of going to press, when morphological research had to be terminated, it was thought that the material of Moseria available indicated the existence of two species. Unfortunately, the bulk of this material, whose generic identity is certain, is in a very poor state of preservation.

Moseria convoluta (Moser, 1925)
Plate XIII, figures 4–10

Stephanomia convoluta Moser, 1925

The pneumatophore has no marked pedicel, and consists of the pneumatosaccus, a basal and a lateral chamber, all three intercommunicating, but cut off from the stem cavity.

Nectophores (text-fig. 31):   Up to 15 mm × 16 mm, flat, heart shaped with deep apical incision at point of attachment, which is by a strong and broad muscular lamella which passes round the adcauline side like a pair of callipers. The upper side is smaller in area than the under side so that the two narrow oblique lateral facets give a bevelled appearance to the sides. One of two young necto-

[NOTE: the folio 66 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. Text-fig. 30 occupies the upper 40% of the page as two drawings, A at the left and B at the right. Unlike the other figures in this range its lettering is set in ordinary printer's type rather than hand-lettered. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, in reading order: "c.d" at the left of drawing A and "c.l", "c.ped", "c.v" on leaders at its right; the vertical scale bar between the two drawings lettered "5mm" (reading bottom-to-top) which belongs to A; a second vertical scale bar lettered "5mm" at the left of drawing B; the panel letter "A" at the foot of the left drawing and "B" at the right of the right-hand drawing. In the line "Monotypic genus for Stephanomia convoluta   Moser, 1925." there is a wide printed gap between "convoluta" and "Moser"; it is preserved above as three spaces. "MOSERIA" in the genus heading is bold italic capitals. The synonym line "Stephanomia convoluta Moser, 1925" is set flush left in smaller type below the "Plate XIII, figures 4–10" line. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. The page ends with the broken word "necto-" (continuing on the next page).]
