[PAGE 15]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	15

placing in one group all the Calycophores with a single nectophore. This 'Thor' report contains some of Bigelow's most beautiful siphonophore drawings, and it is here that can be found Bigelow's final scheme of classification. The 'Albatross' descriptions and figures of each species are most valuable, though inevitably there have taken place some of those annoying changes in nomenclature. My only comments on Bigelow's section (p. 267) on the 'Physophorae', to which he did not add in subsequent papers, are (1) that the Anthophysidae should be referred to as Athorybiidae, because of past confusion between Anthophysa and Athorybia. On pages 268-9 I think that the identity of the genus named Athorybia is really Melophysa and that of 'Anthophysa' is Athorybia as properly understood; and (2) that Nectalia Hkl 1888 probably refers to a juvenile growth stage of an Agalmid, so that no special sub-family or family group is needed. We really know rather less about physonects than about other siphonophores. Bigelow's subsequent work (1913, 1918, 1919, 1931, 1937) must also be studied in conjunction with his 'Albatross' report. I doubt if we shall see its like again.

MOSER

Another important and more recent work on siphonophores is the bulky volume by Fanny Moser on the specimens brought back by the German South Polar Expedition, sent to press in August 1914 but not published until 1925. It is concerned chiefly with the Calycophorae, of which she described nine new species, one of them Diphyes antarctica, confined to the Antarctic, but also contains descriptions of at least two new physophores, both Antarctic forms, Stephanomia convoluta and Pyrostephos vanhoffeni. Hitherto no work had been published on antarctic siphonophores.

Ninety-two of the four hundred and fifty-three pages that deal with siphonophores proper are taken up with general considerations of terminology, ontogeny, classification and phylogeny. Garstang (1946) has already published adverse criticisms of parts of those sections which were repeated in Kükenthal's Handbuch der Zoologie (Moser, 1924b). Nevertheless there is a great deal of information contained in the systematic part and in that dealing with distribution. Moser described about one-third of the species that we know to-day, fifty-one calycophores and six physonects. I am unable to do full justice to her report because of the paucity of my knowledge of the German language. Her comment on Haeckel's (1888b) monograph was (Haeckel's) 'Arbeit bildet auch heute noch einen Markstein in der Siphonophoren-Forschung'. In an interesting supplementary note dated February 1920 (p. 498) Moser (1925) recorded how in the interval that had taken place since finishing her work in February 1914, three of the remaining great authorities on siphonophores, Chun, Metschnikoff and Haeckel had passed away, leaving only Bigelow, who fortunately is still with us as I write this, thirty-four years later. I have been unable to ascertain what was the subsequent fate of Dr. Fanny Moser; nor do I know what happened to her report on Doflein's collection of siphonophores from Japan which she had begun, but feared (as she stated) might never be finished.

GARSTANG

The most important contribution to the understanding of siphonophore morphology and relationships made in Garstang's (1946) characteristically stimulating paper appear to me to be as follows:

The general direction of siphonophore evolution has probably been from Cystonectae with a large float and no nectophores (in the usual sense) ⟶ Physonectae with nectophores and a small float ⟶ Calycophorae with nectophores and no float. Garstang suggested that through atrophy the calycophore larva may have discarded a previously possessed float in favour of a precocious nectophore.

He visualized the phylogeny of siphonophores as having passed through three stages, comparable with those found in other groups, which originated from sessile stocks and became pelagic, e.g. Hydromedusae and Tunicata. These stages are (1) a locomotory larva, which metamorphoses into
