[PAGE 47]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 3 APOLEMIIDAE	47

Indeed, if the gonophores (adults) were better known it might be possible to fertilize eggs and obtain larvae in the laboratory. The appendages are all budded from the ventral side of the stem in groups, separated by bare lengths of stem. These cormidial groups may suddenly separate.

To examine and make a drawing of a living specimen as Lesueur did in 1809 is a very arduous task. The vessel contains one writhing mass of palpons and tentacles. It is equally difficult to disentangle the parts and examine a fixed specimen particularly if it has been anaesthetized, when all the tentacles are expanded into very fine threads that cause one great tangle. Siphonophores soon become moribund in captivity.

The most significant and distinguishing character of Apolemia, as brought out in definitions by Leuckart (1854) and Claus (1863), is the presence of bunches of tentacles at the bases of the nectophores (text-fig. 15). These tentacles are quite unlike the single gastrozooid tentacle of other siphonophores which generally bears alternating side-branches (tentilla). They in fact probably represent the aboral tentacles of the progenitors of siphonophores rather than the characteristic siphonophore tentacles, which are probably oral in derivation, as suggested by Leloup (1954). They are found only in Apolemia. Their situation at the base of the muscular lamella of the nectophore seems to point significantly to a comparison with the somatocyst of calycophores, which too I have suggested represent bracteal canals or aboral tentacular canals. Another striking characteristic of Apolemia is the comparatively slight difference between the gastrozooids with their tentacles and the palpons with their palpacles. In these two ways Apolemia would seem to retain primitive features. The production of free cormidial groups constitutes the third striking character of Apolemia. This feature is found in no other Physonect.

Leuckart (1854), many of whose figures of details of siphonophores are very good, gave (pp. 313–320) a good account of this species, together with sketches of the air-sac, nectophores, gastrozooid, bract and female gonophores (Taf XII, figs. 6, 7, 10, 8 and 11). In the explanation of this plate on page 376 the numbering of figures 4–26 is erroneous. 'Figure 4' to 'figure 25' should read 'figure 5' to 'figure 26', and 'figure 26' should read 'figure 17' (bis.). There is no explanation of figure 4, which is a gastrozooid with basal tentacle (species unidentifiable). Leuckart on page 313 refers to a description of the animal by Lesueur in 'Journ. phys., 1813, p. 1'. This is an erroneous reference as I have already pointed out.

Leuckart's brief preliminary description simply mentions the two most characteristic features, club-shaped bracts and tentacles (Tastern) (it must be stressed that they are not homologous with Tastern (palpons) ) between the nectophores of the nectosome. He said it was as little related to species relegated to the genus Stephanomia as to species of Agalma, although Vogt had called it Agalma punctata. Leuckart (1854) said that he had only seen one complete specimen, a foot in length, at Nice, although he had on many occasions seen the isolated cormidial groups of appendages which appear easily to break off and, like eudoxids, continue their existence separately. His observations in general, he said, agreed with those of Gegenbaur (1853a, b), who gave another good account but did not observe the gonophores. Gegenbaur also commented on the ability of the whole colony to contract, and on the separate movement of the bracts. He mentioned that the longitudinal muscles of the stem occurred only on one side of the stem so that it took up a spiral form in contraction. Gegenbaur described at some length the fine structure of the stem and palpons.

The interesting red-brown palpons were not commented on by Gegenbaur, but both Leuckart (1853 and 1854) and Claus (1863) mentioned them. It is this feature about which we know least perhaps. Working on expanded material fixed in formalin I have not been able satisfactorily to determine their distribution in the cormidial groups. Nor am I certain that most palpons have not much of this brown pigment in their early developmental stages. This is a point on which to concentrate next time living material becomes available. I have never been stung by any Physonect, but Leuckart (1853), said that there was a pair of brown palpons distinguishable from the other palpons surrounding

[NOTE: "(Taf XII, figs. 6, 7, 10, 8 and 11)" is so printed, with no full stop after "Taf" and the figure numbers in that order.]
