[PAGE 12]
[RUNNING HEAD] 12	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

of the apex and which he calls an ocellus. I have failed to see this structure in the only species of Athorybia, but I did observe at Villefranche in a living specimen of A. rosacea some metacercariae that Haeckel may have mistaken for lenses. Then follows a speculation on the otocyst function of the distal part of the palpon of 'some Agalmidae', in which a crystalline otolith is kept in rotary movement by a ciliated epithelium. This rotary movement I have often seen in palpons of Forskalia edwardsi, but I do not believe that any siphonophore produces otoliths or otocysts.

Cystons or Anal Vescicles

I doubt if special palpons can be distinguished for this category with which Haeckel dealt next. I have observed the tips of palpons in Nanomia bijuga flatten out and with a peristalsic-like movement eject granules from the opened distal end. I have reported (1960) on palpons of Physalia with opened tips. Normally the tips are closed and there is no sign of a potential opening.

Tentacles or Capturing Filaments. Palpacles or Tasting Filaments

It is not until we read these two sections that we are told of the usual arrangement of lateral branches or tentilla on the tentacles of the gastrozooids, and the simple palpacles of the palpons. Haeckel did not suggest what I believe to be the truth either that gastrozooids are more highly evolved palpons or vice versa that palpons are reduced gastrozooids. In Apolemia tentacles and palpacles are alike.

Bracts or Covering Pieces

These are interpreted in terms of the Medusome Theory as (1) displaced, (2) reserve, (3) partial umbrellas of medusoids. Haeckel talked of the direct transition of nectophores into bracts to be observed in the 'Athoriidae' and Anthophysidae. The whole interpretation is erroneous as pointed out by Garstang (1946). The section closes with a mention of the apophyses of the bracteal canals of Calycophorae. The homologizing of the four apophyses in the various bracts of different genera is a matter of considerable interest, but is not mentioned by Haeckel.

Gonostyles or Reproductive Stalks

Here Haeckel discussed a subject about which there are still differences of opinion. He added in brackets (Blastostyles, Gonoblastidia, Gonodendra, Klinozooids). He began by saying that the 'gonophores or "medusiform reproductive persons" of the Siphonophorae sometimes develop directly . . . as buds on the gastral wall of the primary siphon or stem'. 'Much more frequently' he added, 'the buds arise from the stomach-wall of secondary polypoid persons . . . better designated sexual palpons. . . . These sacs frequently branch . . . so that the numerous gonophores . . . form large clustered masses (. . . gonodendra).' He used the term Strophogenesis for this relation of medusoid buds to the polypo-persons in terms of the poly-person theory, and called each gonostyle a medusa-manubrium in terms of the poly-organ theory.

Gonophores or Reproductive Persons (Sexual-Medusoids, Gonozooids)

Haeckel did admit in this penultimate section of his general introduction that 'among all parts of the siphonophoral organism, the gonophores are always those members which most distinctly preserve the original character of the medusoid person'. Haeckel rightly compared the siphonophore medusoids with codonid medusae, and points out that reduction to sporosacs often takes place. He said most siphonophores are monoecious but that others are dioecious. Among the monoecious he distinguished monoclinous and diclinous forms in respect of individual cormidia. His statement that some gonodendra are distylic, the basal part of the single branched gonostyle bearing female and the distal part male gonophores, needs careful checking. He added that gonophores which form both spermatozoa and ova are not known.
