[PAGE 210]

210	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Abyla carina Haeckel, 1888
Text-figure 142B

I suspect that eventually it will become clear that A. carina is a synonym of A. trigona Quoy & Gaimard. In my experience, species of Abyla are very variable and few in number. Sears (1953) stated that A. carina shows in its anterior nectophore a number of distinguishing features, so that for the present I treat it as a separate species and cite the distinguishing features alleged by Sears.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 142B; see Sears, 1953, figs. 8A, 9A, 10A): (1) In lateral view the lower edges of the sides of the basal facet are diagonal (i.e. form an acute angle with the horizontal and only slightly curved because the dorsal teeth do not protrude below it as they do in A. trigona. (2) In side view the apico-dorsal-dorsolateral ridges of the apicodorsal facet form a diagonal to the dorsal facet.* I am not sure what Dr. Sears means, but I do not think that a distinction can be made in this type of nectophore between a trigona and a carina pattern of ridges. (3) The transverse apical ridge may be slightly elevated above the surface of the apical facets. (4) The lateral protrusions as seen in ventral or dorsal view are not prominent. (5) The ridges as a whole are not raised above the facets. (6) Most of the basal ridges are slightly serrated. (7) The nectophore is more massive than that of trigona.

Posterior nectophore:   Sears admitted that the general shape is not sufficiently characteristic to separate it from that of trigona, but notes some differences. These appear to me to be of a kind that is very variable.

Eudoxid phase

It has not been determined whether the eudoxids are characteristically different from those of trigona.

Abyla haeckeli Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Plate XXXVI, figures 6, 8

For synonymy see Sears, 1953, page 39

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVI, figs. 6, 8)

Anterior nectophore:   There is a horizontal ridge dividing off from the ventral facet – as found in trigona (see Bigelow 1911b, fig. 3) – an apicoventral facet (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 13, fig. 1 and Sears, 1953, fig. 3).

I have re-examined the nectophore I described in 1932, which Sears said might equally well be that of ingeborgae. My identification was correct.

Posterior nectophore (young specimens):   (1) the lateral teeth round the ostium lie closer to the dorsal tooth than to the ventral ones. (2) There are only two or three teeth on the comb. We need a figure of a mature specimen.

Eudoxid phase

Bract:   The 'cleft' shown in my (1932) text-figure was as I stated, an artefact, which distorted the basal facet. Apparently Sears excluded my specimen from haeckeli thinking that this was of a specific nature.

Gonophore (see text-fig. 143).

[FOOTNOTE] * For nomenclature of ridges and facets see Sears (1953, fig. 3). Since the lateral ridges of the apicodorsal facet may be said to be divided into two at their junction with the lateral ridge – the one between the apical ventrolateral facet and the dorsolateral facet – I have distinguished between the two parts by naming the facets between which the particular part runs.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. In the "Anterior nectophore" paragraph of
A. haeckeli the first citation is printed "Bigelow 1911b" without a comma after the surname
while the second in the same sentence is printed "Bigelow, 1911b" with one; both are as
printed. The parenthesis opened at "(1) In lateral view the lower edges … as they do in
A. trigona." is not closed in the print. Faint stray ink specks stand in the left margin
beside the "Abyla haeckeli" heading and beside the line "figure of a mature specimen."]
