[PAGE 50]
[RUNNING HEAD] 50	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Siphosome:   May reach a length of 20 m, drawn up into a spiral when contracted, with numerous scaphoid bracts extending to the outer (dorsal) side, arranged in cormidial groups, up to 5 cms apart when the stem is extended. Each cormidium bears one or perhaps more gastrozooids and fifty or more palpons, both having fine filiform tentacles of the same kind issuing from their bases. The palpons are very long and slender and very active in life. The bracts like the nectophores are covered with opaque patches of nematocysts on the outer side. Some of the palpons are shorter and more rigid, with much brown pigment and heavily covered with nematocysts which can sting the hands. These nematocysts are large and banana-shaped, 0·77 mm in length with a long barbed hampe. The tentacles of the gastrozooids and palpons are armed with birhopaloïd nematocysts. A gastrozooid tentacle severed from the upper part of the stem of a specimen taken at Villefranche and anaesthetized in MgCl2, when straightened out measured 4 cm in length. My experience with siphonophore tentacles makes me estimate that in life this tentacle might have been three or four times as long or perhaps more. If an extended piece of tentacle is mounted on a microscope slide it can be seen to form internodes about 1/60 mm in diameter separating nodes of twice this diameter. The nodes contain a pair of birhopaloïd nematocysts and appear to have a cap of gland cells, and there appears to be a 'double

[FIGURE]
m
n
A
B
C
y
y
D
0·4mm

FIG. 16.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur
Detached monovon gonophores of a specimen from Friday Harbour, California, Fontaine Coll. m = manubrium; n = nucleus; y = yolk.
[/FIGURE]

fibre' down the centre of the tentacle. The gland cells and surrounding granules as well as the double fibre do not stain with borax carmine. The nematocysts appear to be associated with a pigment (see Vogt's fig. 1, Pl. 2). The 'double fibre' measures 0·01 mm in diameter. A specimen from Nanaimo, provisionally identified as A. uvaria, bore in addition on the tentacles and palpacles, oval nematocysts, 20–30μ × 19–20μ, whose devaginated spiral threads had no hampe.

Gonophores (text-figs. 16, 17) (see Leuckart, 1854, p. 319) are developed in bunches on the distal part of the stem. More information about them is needed. According to Claus (1863, p. 544) A. uvaria is dioecious.

Palpon nematocysts:   The material used was the tip of a large palpon of a specimen of Apolemia(?) species from Nanaimo kindly sent me by Dr. G. O. Mackie of Alberta University.

A crush preparation showed several evaginated large banana-shaped nematocysts with a long hampe.

[TABLE]
Maximum diameter	0·018 mm
Length	0·077 mm
Length of hampe	0·18  mm
Diameter of hampe	0·007 mm
Diameter of hampe including spines	0·013 mm
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: "1/60" is printed as a small stacked fraction. "MgCl2" is printed with a subscript 2. The printed query mark in "Apolemia(?) species" is the author's own, in round brackets. In the table at the foot, leader dots separate each item from its value; they are omitted here and a single tab substituted. "0·18  mm" carries an extra space before "mm" in the original alignment. In FIG. 16 the scale bar is lettered "0·4mm" set vertically; the panel letters and label letters are given above in reading order (m, n and A in the first panel; B; C with y; y with D).]
