[PAGE 208]

208	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

triangular dorsal facet with strongly bowed and serrated lateral margins and a deeply emarginated base; (2) its apex, into which the apex of the nectosac is extended, is produced into a short peak which extends beyond the apex of the somatocyst and hydroecium.

Posterior nectophore: At least three times as long as wide and opaque. Dorsal tooth larger than in the other species, and forward projecting. For detailed structure see Sears (1953, pp. 69–70, text-fig. 21); Totton (1954), Pl. X.

Eudoxid phase

Bract (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 80):   The finding of attached, well developed eudoxids enabled me in 1954 to publish confirmation of my deduction from associations of two phases in the same catches that the left lateral ridge always joins the apico-dorsal ridge, but not the posterior margin. This is the reverse of the condition found in C. leuckarti. Sears (1953) reported that this type of bract had been taken repeatedly with the polygastric stage of this species.

Gonophore:   A larger female and smaller mirror image male usually found locked together under the bract (Totton, 1954, text-fig. 81). The structure of the gonophores is more complicated than that of any other species of siphonophore.  The implication is that the genus is highly evolved.

Genus: ABYLA Quoy & Gaimard, 1827

Pseudabyla Sears, 1953, page 49, text-figure 16, 17

Type species: Abyla trigona Quoy & Gaimard, 1827.

Through the courtesy of the Musée d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, both Dr. Sears and I have been able to make independent re-examinations of syntypes of the type species (see Sears, 1953, and Totton, 1954).

I regard the species of Abyla as the most variable of siphonophores, and the most highly evolved. The larval nectophore, however, appears not to be caducous but to persist as the anterior nectophore. As in all abylids except Bassia the somatocyst has curved over to occupy a position on the dorsal side of the hydroecium.

The generic characters were dealt with at length by Sears (1953). She made keys for nine species, and published many line drawings of the separate parts.

A great deal of material of Abyla spp. is available for the next reviewer.

Abyla trigona Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
Plate XXXVI, figures 9, 10

For synonymy see Sears, 1953, page 35
? Syn. A. carina Haeckel, 1888b

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVI, figs. 9, 10)

Anterior nectophore:   Sears described four characteristics: (1) most of the ridges are heavily and irregularly serrated, the laterals of the dorsal facet especially so; (2) the apico-dorsal facet is sharply bent upward from the insertion of the lateral ridges to the transverse apical ridge*; (3) the lateral protrusions are somewhat sharper and more prominent than those of A. carina; (4) the facets of the nectophore as a whole are depressed below the ridges surrounding them. For figures see Sears (1953), text-figures 8B, 9B, 10B.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 142A, D, E):   Sears described three characteristic features: (1) a smaller number (six to eight) of teeth on the comb than in A. carina; (2) the presence of two rows of teeth on the basal margin of the right ventral wing much as Haeckel (1888a, Pl. 35, figs. 8–9) showed them; (3) the heavier serration of the ostial teeth, more so than in any other known species of Abyla.

[FOOTNOTE] * Sears provided diagrammatic drawings to explain terminology. It should be noted that I continue to use the terms right and left in the sense opposite to that of Sears.

[NOTE: the query mark opening "? Syn. A. carina Haeckel, 1888b" is printed bare, without
square brackets; there are no printed square brackets on this page.]
