[PAGE 183]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	183

presumably the second gonophores to be budded. The edges of the ridges are quite smooth, although some may show very faint traces of irregularity. The manubrium in fully developed gonophores extends more than two-thirds the length of the sub-umbrella cavity and has a pink tip. The radial canals follow the spiral courses of the ridges. One eudoxid was seen with twenty-one nematocyst batteries on its tentacle.'

Muggiaea bargmannae Totton, 1954
Text-figure 120

One of the five Antarctic and Arctic siphonophores, formerly confused with Dimophyes arctica, to which it bears some superficial resemblance in the preserved plankton hauls.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophores (text-fig. 120):   The convex longitudinal folds which form on contraction of the nectosac are not surmounted by crests as they are in atlantica and kochi. There is only a small gap between the apex of the nectosac and that of the whole nectophore. Near the ostium the base of the dorsal fold is nearly obliterated by the approach towards each other of the lateral longitudinal folds. The somatocyst is relatively short, tubular, or sausage-shaped, varying in diameter from 0·14 mm to 0·5 mm according to its content, and equals in length half the distance from apex of hydroecium to apex of nectosac. The hydroecium is shallower than that of M. kochi; may reach a depth of 1·75 mm and has a deep notch in the ventral wall; the base of the mid-line of this wall lies at about the same level as the ostium. There are two rounded overlapping mouth-plates about 0·9 mm length.

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Some associated gonophores from the Arctic have been examined, but at present their characteristics cannot be differentiated for description.

Distribution:   M. bargmannae has been recorded in the Antarctic from twenty-three closing net hauls made by R.R.S.S. 'Discovery' and 'Discovery II'. At a typical station (2017) the hauls containing it were made as follows: 100–50 m; 250–100 m; 500–250 m; and 750–500 m. One specimen was identified in each haul. Thanks to Dr. Martin W. Johnson of Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, I was able on July 3, 1962, to identify small specimens taken in the Arctic in hauls from 1,500, 1,000, 500 and 100 m to the surface. I had no details of the exact localities of these Arctic hauls. There were from one to four small nectophores in each haul, all except one being in a poor state of preservation.

It is interesting to find this species occurring in association with Dimophyes arctica, with which it can be easily confused, in both the Arctic and Antarctic.

Unlike Dimophyes arctica it has not, so far, been found in Atlantic bottom water.

Muggiaea delsmani Totton, 1954
Text-figure 121

Found in the low salinity water of the Java Sea with two other species that are characteristic of a similar environment.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 121):   Five-ridged with shallower hydroecium than in M. kochi.

[NOTE: the closing single quotation mark after "on its tentacle." closes the Russell
quotation begun on the previous page.]
