[PAGE 28]
[RUNNING HEAD] 28	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
1 mm.
1 mm.
o.t.
o.t.
abo.t.
abo.r.
abo.t.
c.
p.
c.e.
A
B

FIG. 11.   Actinula larva of a gymnoblastic hydroid, Tubularia larynx
abo.r = aboral region shown in optical section in B (semi-diagrammatic); abo.t = aboral tentacle; c = coelenteron; c.e = columnar ectoderm; p = perisarc; o.t = oral tentacle (from Pyefinch and Downing, 1949, fig. 1).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the remainder of the page is set in two unequal columns; FIG. 12 with its caption occupies the left column and the running prose the right. The figure and caption are given first here, then the right-hand column of text.]

[FIGURE]
n.t

FIG. 12.   Nerve-tract of a nectophore of Nanomia bijuga × 42 (by permission of G. O. Mackie)
The stem is bent to one side to show the attachment lamella and the course of the exumbrella nerve-tract, n.t.
[/FIGURE]

the gonophores frequently remained attached to the individuals from which they are budded, and that then the medusa-structure is modified to become medusoid. A similar sequence of events occurs in the Siphonophora, except that the free-swimming phase is always medusoid. I do not recall ever seeing the manubrium of siphonophore gonophores ingesting food, not even in the eudoxid phase of the calycophores. Kühn recognized five special types of medusoids in the Hydroida; only one of these, the styloid occurs in siphonophores, in the Cystonectae (text-fig. 6).

To sum up: these various polypoid and medusoid persons are associated in different combinations in the three sub-orders of the Siphonophora, in both the larval and in later growth phases:

A.   Cystonectae and Physonectae have cormidial groups. A cormidium (except in Apolemia (text-fig. 13, p. 46) ) is a non-separating stem-group consisting of secondary polyps – gastrozooids, palpons and bracts (when present) – and gonodendra, carrying nectophores in the Cystonectae, or gonophores generally with no nectophores in the Physonectae. The cystonect larval phase comprises the oozooid before there is any complex branching of cormidia. The physonect larval phase shows larval bracts covering the pneumatophore of the oozooid, and buds of gastrozooids and palpons on one side
