[PAGE 121]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	121

The gonophores pulsate actively, so that from time to time the stem relaxes and the eudoxids separate from one another as all the gonophores actively spread the stem into loops. This process extends the potential fishing-field of the tentacles, and is a beautiful phenomenon to observe. I have observed that the stem contracts again before the nectophores begin to pulsate. Gegenbaur said that the gonophores, after detachment, swam about for several days. He counted forty-six eudoxids on a three-foot long stem. There may be upwards of sixty tentilla from 4–5 mm apart when the tentacle is extended, in which condition it may be 27 cm long. The terminal filament can extend to 13 mm; it has a small disc-shaped terminal sinker edged with nematocysts. Thus a single animal may fish more than 35 m of armed line. I introduced some 4–5 mm long fish-larvae into a tank containing a specimen of R. cymbiformis. The fish generally avoided the 'net' but sometimes a filament attached itself to a tail. The fish usually broke away with a piece of filament attached and did not succumb. But one larva was observed being ingested head first by a gastrozooid, while the gastrozooid next but one was ingesting the tail of the same larva.

Attached bracts and detached gonophores and tentilla of R. cymbiformis provide good experimental material of siphonophores. When the inside margin of the ostium (velum) of the gonophore is touched with a needle, there follows a single contraction of the nectosac. When the needle is passed inside the umbrella cavity, without touching the ostium, until it touches the proximal surface of the nectosac a general tetanus occurs, together with a shortening and contraction of the whole gonophore. This tetanus can be terminated by another touch of the margin of the ostium. At this time there appears to be a tendency for the ectoderm to become sticky and to adhere to the bottom of the container. If the gonophore is placed between two electrodes (alternating current), a single pulse causes a similar spasm. It is probably the action of formalin on the nectosac that causes the contracted condition in which so much preserved material of nectophores and gonophores arrives in plankton samples.

I experimented with tactile and pressure stimuli on different areas of attached bracts of eudoxids. The region round the termination of the dorsal branch of the phyllocyst was unresponsive, but slight pressure over the terminal dilation of the median, longitudinal branch was followed by contraction of the muscular lamellae.

Genus: PRAYA Quoy & Gaimard in Blainville, 1834

Praya Auct pro parte
Praia Blainville, 1830, 1834
Nectodroma Bigelow, 1911b

Type species: Praya dubia (Quoy & Gaimard, 1833).

Blainville (1830) adapted Quoy & Gaimard's manuscript name Praya, taken from that of a beach in the Cape Verde Islands where these naturalists found the first prayid siphonophore. Subsequent authors have returned to the use of Quoy & Gaimard's original spelling in spite of the fact that Praia has priority of publication. According to the current code of nomenclature Praya must now be used. Blainville based his description on Quoy & Gaimard's actual specimen shown in their plate 5, figures 34–36, of which they say (pp. 105, 106), 'Nous avions fait de ce corps . . . notre genre Praya mentionné par M. de Blainville dans son Traité des Zoophytes . . . '

Generic Diagnosis:

Polygastric phase

Species with a pair of large, opposed, rounded nectophores (reserve buds may be present) with multi-form (branched) radial, subumbral canals, a branched somatocyst and flattened, semi-circular bracts.

9

[NOTE: the "9" on the last line is a printer's signature mark at the foot of the page, not a folio.]
