[PAGE 61]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	61

specifically identified. Fifty-two years later Huxley (1859) used the same name for a similar siphosome taken off the east coast of Australia, which he figured in some detail. Fifty-two years later still Bigelow (1911b) described and figured two similar siphosome fragments from the Eastern Tropical Pacific, both in beautiful condition, and with colour notes. These specimens are probably congeneric with species now referred to the genus Halistemma.

Even so, in the absence of data about the nectosomes of these four specimens, it is difficult to base a description of a species on them, although if a complete, well preserved specimen should ever be taken off the east coast of Australia, the details of whose siphosome corresponded with Huxley's (1859) and Bigelow's (1911b) figures and material, then we could firmly establish a species Stephanomia amphytridis Lesueur & Petit, 1807.

A great deal of similar material of both nectosomes and siphosomes collected off Bermuda by Beebe and also by the ships of the National Institute of Oceanography is known to exist, and it is to be hoped that yet another fifty-two years will not pass before it is examined more fully and described.

Genus: CORDAGALMA Totton, 1932

Minute agalmids with heart-shaped nectophores, whose lateral canals do not form sigmoid curves. Monotypic genus for C. cordiformis Totton, 1932.

[FIGURE]
0·5MM
A
B
C

FIG. 25.   Cordagalma cordiformis Totton
A, ventral and B, ostial view of a nectophore from the Great Barrier Reef, × 47. C, diagrammatic optical section of a nectophore (from Totton, 1932, figs. 8, 9)
[/FIGURE]

Cordagalma cordiformis Totton, 1932
Text-figure 25

Known only from its minute nectophores, this must be the smallest of Physonects, and has been generally overlooked, though reported by the author from the following localities, Great Barrier Reef; off St. Vincent, West Indies; Villefranche-sur-Mer, A.M., France; Gulf of Aqaba; East African coast.

The nectophores (text-fig. 25) measure 2·0 mm × 1·2 mm × 1·1 mm. They are heart-shaped when viewed from the ostial side and the lateral radial canals do not form sigmoid curves, but make one ascending loop on their way to the circular canal.

[NOTE: text-fig. 25 consists of three drawings side by side. The only text printed within them is the vertical scale bar at the far left, lettered "0·5MM" with the "MM" in small capitals, and the panel letters A, B and C set at the foot of each drawing; they are listed inside [FIGURE] above in reading order. "CORDAGALMA" in the genus heading is bold italic capitals, and "Cordagalma cordiformis" in the species heading bold italic. In "1911b" and "(1911b)" the two 1's of "11" are set slightly apart, an artefact of the old-style figures.]
