[PAGE 27]
[RUNNING HEAD] GROSS MORPHOLOGY	27

structure, the somatocyst, a caecal diverticulum of their pedicels (text-figs. 3, 4). I hold the view, already stated on page 25, that this structure is the homologue of an ancestral actinuloid tentacle. Garstang (1946) dealt with earlier interpretations. Nectophores of the second category of nectophores form part of the stem-groups. Thus, medusoid gonophores and nectophores may occur together in the same stem-group or in the same eudoxid as (a) small somewhat reduced gonophores, and (b) a larger special swimming-bell.

In Rosacea cymbiformis, for example, the sexual kind (a) may at first contain only a rudiment of a manubrium and sexual products, while it intermittently propels its still unseparated eudoxid during full extension of the stem. Only shortly before fragmentation of the stem and separation of the eudoxids does it become sexually mature, but it is still capable of propulsion. In Lilyopsis spp., the special swimming-bell (b) has not even a rudiment of a manubrium from the start and is entirely asexual (text-fig. 71). It is accompanied by the much smaller type of gonophore (a) just described.

In view of the fact that these codonid medusoids, some of which are so small that they tend to be overlooked, are the true siphonophore adults, it may not be out of place here to refer readers who are not medusologists to an account by Kühn (1913, pp. 153–73) of the development and basic organization of Anthomedusae.

Chun (1891–97) in Bronn's Tierreich had already distinguished medusae from medusoids by the presence or absence of a mouth on the manubrium. Kühn accepted this definition. He pointed out (loc. cit., p. 3) that in the Hydroida the gonozooids could be true free-swimming medusae, but that

[FIGURE]
A
D
o
m
B
C
·5 mm
ns
3 mm
m
E

FIG. 10.   Adult medusoids: A, B, Halistemma rubrum, ♂, × 12 approx.; C, a sperm head from the same, × 600 (from Vogt, 1854, Pl. X, figs. 29–31); D, Chelophyes appendiculata ♂ (from Totton, 1932, fig. 26A); E, Ceratocymba dentata ♀ (from Totton, 1954, fig. 81A).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the two scale-bar labels ('·5 mm' and '3 mm') are printed rotated 90° anticlockwise beside their bars.]
