[PAGE 137]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	137

pallial canal or somatocyst extends from end to end. There is a sharp bend in its middle region round the central organ. The dorsal and ventral radial canals of the nectosac arise separately. The laterals arise opposite each other.

Eudoxid phase

The eudoxid, measuring about 54 mm in length has been described and figured by Bigelow, first in 1911b, then in 1919, and lastly in 1931. It is much elongated, triangular in section above the hydroecium which extends for little more than half its length, and is occupied by a very much elongated special swimming bell (asexual nectophore), with its nectosac in the middle of the outer, long, concave side. The pedicular canal, originates at the upper end and continues past the nectosac to the lower end. This special nectophore has a long hydroecial cavity. The radial canals of its nectosac arise as in that of the nectophore of the polygastric phase. The special nectophore measures about 31 mm in length. The bracteal canal-system is of the generalized prayine pattern. There is a long dorsal branch C3 giving off a short branchlet to the dorsal, slightly concave surface, which has two lateral, longitudinal ridges and a pair of hydroecial canals, one on each side of the hydroecium, which may unite below. But there are no spur canals and no branch C4. A bunch of small gonophores arises near the base of the gastrozooid. The eudoxids are dioecious.

Nectopyramis spinosa Sears, 1952
Plate XXVII, figure 2

Hippopodius cuspidatus Moser, 1925

Hitherto two rather different types of nectophore have been described and figured (see Totton, 1954). I find that the one with the vestigial nectosac is the caducous larval one. I have found an early growth stage of the second type inside its hydroecium. The eudoxid which I describe below was hitherto unknown.

Polygastric phase

Nectophores (text-fig. 79):   The larval one has a vestigial nectosac on one side, still supplied by two minute radial canals, which come off the pallial canal separately. The other type of nectophore has a larger, basal, functional nectosac whose radial canals come off separately from the lower branch of the pallial canal as in other species of Nectopyramis.

The nectophores of both types are characterized by the presence of a complex arrangement of spiny ridges, whose basic pattern (text-fig. 80A) I have been able to establish in one of the larval type. The hydroecial ostium is narrow, as in other larval types, and is edged by a spiny peri-hydroecial ridge. On the opposite side, just above the ostium of the vestigial nectosac is a horizontal figure-of-eight ridge. Running on either side horizontally from just below and outside the ostium of the nectosac, and bending up as they take their course towards the upper third of the perihydroecial ridge is a pair of buccal ridges. This is the basic pattern of ridges. Sometimes there are variants. The two buccals may almost meet at the ostium of the nectosac. There is often a connecting dorsal ridge joining the figure-of-eight and the peri-hydroecial ridges. Sometimes there is a semi-circular ridge between the figure-of-eight and the upper part of the perihydroecial. This arrangement was recognized in specimens from 'Discovery' Stations 4230 and 4254 both taken in the 'Young Fish Trawl' at 800 m.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 80B.)   The bract, which measures 6 mm × 4 mm and is somewhat compressed laterally, is of the most generalized type found in the Prayidae; and can be homologized with the better known diphyid type. It has a deep hydroecial cavity, which has an oblique entire margin or ostium. The upper

10

[NOTE: the "10" at the foot of the page, in folio position at the left, is a printer's signature mark, not a folio; the folio is the "137" in the head.]

[NOTE: the numerals of "C3" and "C4" in the first "Eudoxid phase" paragraph are printed as superscripts.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 54 mm; 1911b, 1919, 1931; 31 mm; Sears, 1952; Plate XXVII, figure 2; Moser, 1925; Totton, 1954; text-fig. 79; text-fig. 80A; Stations 4230 and 4254; 800 m; Text-fig. 80B; 6 mm × 4 mm. The multiplication sign in "6 mm × 4 mm" is a saltire cross.]

[NOTE: "peri-hydroecial" is printed hyphenated in two places and "perihydroecial" unhyphenated in two others, as transcribed. The italicized ridge names in the long paragraph — peri-hydroecial, figure-of-eight, buccal, dorsal, semi-circular — are italic in the original. "The pedicular canal, originates at the upper end" carries the author's own comma. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]
