[PAGE 19]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	19

morphes') with occasional returns to a passive one (Sphaeronectidae). [I know of no one who has described their movements, and personal observation does not suggest that sphaeronectids are active movers.] Colonies tend to become small, and this reduction affects the two zones of proliferation – a progressive limitation in numbers of nectophores. Sometimes, Leloup thought, the retention of only a single nectophore has arisen through tachygenesis. [I suspect that the single nectophore of Sphaeronectes spp. is the larval one retained.] Reduction affects the siphosome by precocious formation of eudoxids which lighten the colony and gives it greater speed. This is the origin of the generation alternante.

Where the stem is long and carries many cormidia (Hippopodiidae) Leloup said that the definitive (réserves) nectophores ejected the old ones, whilst where the stem is shortened by precocious liberation of eudoxids the 'reserve' bells were fewer and even disappeared completely (Monophyides). [From personal observation I doubt Leloup's statements about the comparative lengths of stems. That of Chelophyes appendiculata can be astonishingly long. I doubt if the lengths have been recorded with sufficient detail to judge.] Leloup then drew attention to the progressive stream-lining of nectophores in diphyids. The change in arrangement of nectophores from opposite rows to a fore-and-aft one favours ability to move (déplacement) rapidly. With this tendency arises another towards protection of the stem-buds both of the nectosome and siphosome. [Leloup gave an interpretation of the evolution of the hydroecium which I do not find very satisfying. A great deal depends on whether the anterior nectophore of Abylidae, Chuniphyidae and some Diphyidae is, as I suspect, the larval one retained.]

Leloup then discussed briefly the specific gravity of the whole calycophore and of its separate parts, but without mention of the work of Jacobs (1937). 'Calycophores' with numerous similar nectophores arranged in two sub-opposite rows, the Hippopodiidae were, he thought, the most primitive. The position of the desmophyids [I know of only one species], Leloup says is ill-defined, as is that of the stephanophyids, whose four adult nectophores are arranged in a tight spiral: 'le long d'une hélice à tours très serrés'. These polyphyids, which move fairly rapidly, were followed, he said, in his evolutionary story by the Prayidae, which gave rise to two evolutionary lines. One led either to neotenous monophyids – Sphaeronectidae [which in my view are descended from precursors of abylids. I agree with Leloup that the single nectophore of Sphaeronectes is probably the larval one retained. For some years I have been collecting progressively earlier larval stages and think I now have critical stages to prove it] or to a line that culminated in degenerate diphyids (Amphicaryon [ = Mitrophyes] ) and degenerate monophyids, Nectopyramis spp. The second line diverging from Prayidae led on, he thought, to the Clausophyidae. [There is a somatocyst in the posterior nectophore as well as in the anterior, which I believe to be the larval one retained. A somatocyst in the posterior nectophore seems to me to be a primitive feature.] Leloup thought that the Clausophyidae led on to the Diphyidae [which in my view at present form a catch-all group. The anterior nectophore of species of the genus Diphyes will prove, I believe, to be the larval nectophore retained. I collected a number of very early growth-stages of D. dispar at Arrecife in 1955 and I hope that they will prove the point. The same thing holds true, I believe, for Clausophyidae, Chuniphyidae and Abylidae]. Leloup's brief characterization of all these groups does not, I think, throw much light on Phylogeny, but we are all indebted to him for a great deal of very useful research work on the group. I regret to say that I do not consider that the suggested lines of descent shown on pages 692–4 are, in general, very probable. A great deal of further research is needed before we can really judge.
