[PAGE 17]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	17

tachygenic actinulas, and suggested that they still have a link,* however temporary, with the benthos. The Siphonophora, said Leloup, demonstrate the evolution of a planktonic group which has tended to abandon progressively a passive life and to take on an active one with a transition towards an alternation of generations. [The last statement refers, I suppose, to the formation of a free-swimming eudoxid phase, one which is more properly, I think, to be regarded as the setting free of a group of buds, both larval and adult.] There will be general agreement with Leloup that the change from a fixed, benthic way of life to a planktonic one must have taken place during a larval phase.

Leloup felt forced by a study of embryology and comparative anatomy to divide siphonophores into four groups – 'Chondrophorides' [which I prefer to consider as a separate order Chondrophora (Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821)], 'Cystonectides, Physonectides and Calycophorides'. He calls the first three together 'Physophorides', without commitment to views on relationships. Quoting Moser (1925) he pointed out that there are no intermediate forms. What was capable of transformation has disappeared in the process. In default of palaeontological evidence we have to depend on embryology, where there is great condensation; and on morphology and ethology. A logical and objective hypothesis he said, postulates a common actinuloid larva in which at first the float (an invagination of the aboral pole of the larva) and trunk had equal importance, but in which, later on, they had evolved in opposite directions, that is towards predominance of trunk (siphosome) in 'Physophorides' and towards a nectosome [how is this related to the float?] in the 'Calycophorides'. For all siphonophores, he says, can be related to an initial form, derived from an actinula larva, the siphonula.† [I would stress the fact that Leloup's figure 4D represents a hypothetical form. We are familiar with all too few complete physonect or cystonect larvae. The best known are those of Physophora hydrostatica, Agalma elegans, Agalma okenii, Nanomia bijuga and Physalia physalis. Published figures of them are not always a good guide, and I would not venture to combine them into a common hypothetical form, as Leloup has done in his figure 4D.]

Leloup argued that, since a siphonula is found 'in its characteristic form' in the physonects, it is incontestable that the physonects appeared before the 'Calycophorides', whose larva, the calyconula, has evolved further than and can be derived from this siphonula. [I think that we must be careful that we really understand the morphology of the larvae of these two groups, and that we do not base our arguments on incorrect, schematic 'morphological types'.] Leloup went on to say that he has already established the relationship between the cystonect larva – the cystonula [and the larva of the Chondrophora – the ratarula] and this siphonula, but confessed that the one cannot be derived from the other. He then reviewed the attempts that have been made to relate his four groups. He stated his own hypothesis (p. 681) that although the larvae of the four groups can be derived from the same type of larval ancestor the siphonula [?] one cannot link together the Chondrophora and 'Cystonectides' of to-day with present day 'Physonectides and Calycophorides'. [Of course, the difficulty disappears when the Chondrophora are recognized as the odd group out, as it was by Haeckel (1888b) and Chun (1897a).] On his phylogenetic tree he labels a lower branch 'Cystonectidae' (and another 'Chondrophoridae').

He repeated his agreement with the view of Korschelt & Heider (1890) and myself (1932) – but omits Garstang's (1946) – that 'Calycophorides' are descended from 'Physophorides', and mentioned the differentiation of nectophores that has taken place in 'Calycophorides'. He thought that the 'grandes formes' [? Prayidae] were not the most complex, but that their structure was simple and repetitive, easily capable of giving rise to the 'formes petites' [? diphyids] with their complicated

[FOOTNOTE] * A fact verified by Werner (1954), whose paper on Margelopsis haeckeli was still in the press.
[FOOTNOTE] † It seems to have been Haeckel (1888b), who first introduced the term siphonula to indicate the young larva of any siphonophore. Here Leloup (1954, pp. 655 sqq.) uses the term in a restricted sense for a physonect larva. Is siphonula perhaps a lapsus linguae for physonula, a term that he nowhere employs? Throughout this work I have avoided the use of Haeckel's terms (siphonula, cystonula, physonula and calyconula) for they would seem to indicate that the larval phase is transitory, whereas in my view it is permanent.
