[PAGE 48]
[RUNNING HEAD] 48	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

each gastrozooid, and that the ectoderm is full of nematocysts, which cause a sharp burning pain. These nematocysts were distinguishable, he said from those of the tentacles partly through their globular form, and partly through the spiral winding on their strong threads. At the tips of the palpacles of these brown palpons Leuckart said that there were smaller nematocysts distributed in a special way – which he did not specify as far as I can understand. Claus (1863) described the following five kinds of nematocysts each of which, he said, had its fixed and characteristic distribution, and which he figured on his Plate XLVI: (1) small globular, 0·007–0·008 mm diameter, in the ectoderm of small palpons and at the mouth of gastrozooids (fig. 8b). (2) Large globular, 0·012–0·014 mm diameter without hampe (Zwischenstück), in the ectoderm of nectophores and gastrozooids, producing whitish spots also, forming the heavy armature of the red-brown palpons (fig. 8a). (3) Oval, with a twin-knobbed, simple thread, 0·012 mm diameter, 0·02 mm long, in the ectoderm of the tentacles (fig. 8c). (4) Longish, elliptical, 0·011 mm diameter, 0·023 mm long, with a cylindrical hampe bearing spirally wound spinelets, forming the chief part of the armature of the tips of the palpons. (5) Pear shaped, large 0·018–0·02 mm diameter, 0·022 mm long, with a long conical hampe which bears spinelets set across it, provided with an operculum, found at the tips of palpons.

Claus commented on the abundance of cnidocils. Iwantzoff (1896) confirmed the presence of Claus's category 2, to which Weill (1934, p. 86), who had not examined Apolemia, gave the name birhophaloïdes. Weill pointed out that according to Iwantzoff's and Claus's descriptions the two dilatations were on a hampe, but seemed doubtful of their existence, and said it was necessary to re-examine Apolemia. I have recently examined tentacles that had been extended in MgCl2 before fixing in formalin-sea water, and have found many in which the nematocyst threads are devaginated. To my joy I found that the nematocysts were birhophaloïdes, just as Claus and Iwantzoff had described them. Actually they were first described and figured by Gegenbaur (1853b, Pl. 18, fig. 2). Subsequently in 1963 and 1964 I discharged numbers of these birhophaloïdes some of which I sent to Weill.

DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIES

Nectosome:   About a dozen nectophores (text-figs. 13, 14) are arranged as usual in two rows, each nectophore measuring from 13 to 19 mm in diameter or a little more. The axial side of each is deeply hollowed out. The two ridges on the latero-axial sides run up to form a rounded angle as shown (upside down) in Lesueur's figure 4 of an axial view. As described by Leuckart, the edges of these axial wings come together below to form a keel, but are wide apart above and embrace the

[FIGURE]
10mm
c.r.l
c.r.l
o
ped
A
B
2MM
C

FIG. 14.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur. Nectophores and bracts
A, ostial view; B, lateral view of a nectophore; C, bracts (from Totton & Fraser, 1955, figs. 8a–c).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: "MgCl2" is printed with a subscript 2. "10mm" is printed vertically alongside the scale bar of figure A; "2MM" horizontally beside the scale bar of C. In this copy a hand-drawn ink underline runs beneath the word "tentacles" ("I have recently examined tentacles"), with a shorter stroke beneath "many in" on the following line; these are reader's marks, not type.]
