[PAGE 13]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	13

Fundamental Form (Promorph)

This final section does not appear in his paper in Zeitschrift für Naturwissenschaft, Jena 22 (1888a). He first mentioned that radial structure is found in the gonophores, and that bilateral structure occurs in all siphonophores proper. This bilateral arrangement he claimed 'is partly inherited from the bilateral Medusae, which we regard as the ancestors of the Siphonanthae (Protomeda) . . . but partly the bilateral type is produced by adaptation . . .'. 'To get a clear conception of these difficult promorphological relations, we must distinguish' he said, 'firstly the fundamental forms of the entire cormus and of the single persons . . . and secondly the different promorphological development in the two independent legions of the Class, the Disconanthae and the Siphonanthae'. In his sub-section 'Promorph of the Corms in the Siphonanthae', he gave a simple description of a siphonanth (physonect) larva – obviously that of Physophora hydrostatica, but mistakenly in terms of his Medusome Theory referred to its 'manubrium' (protozooid) and its 'primary umbrella' (bract) with 'its deep ventral cleft'. He then defined its different axes. In all this discussion of 'difficult promorphological relations' Haeckel remarked rather amusingly, if I may say so without irreverence, that the 'bilateral promorph of the Siphonanthae (has been) very unnaturally described by many authors'. (!) In his short discussion on orientation he erroneously stated that the larval nectophore of a calyconect occupies the apical pole. As to the distinction between right and left he claimed that it is clear when the ventral side is defined. To me it appears that it is also necessary to define anterior and posterior, which Haeckel failed to do. No wonder then he complained that the right and left halves are 'often confounded by different authors and described in striking contradiction'. Haeckel did, however, call the upper, pneumatophore pole of a physonect apical and the opposite one basal. I have always been taught to regard the oral end as anterior. His last words contain – alas – the erroneous statement that the radial pouches of a physonect-float are comparable to the radial canals of a medusa.

Before starting on his Description of the Families, Genera and Species Haeckel gave a 'Definition of the Class' in which, of course, he included the Disconanthae. I have suggested a new definition on page 2.

LENS & VAN RIEMSDIJK

This report by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) on the Siphonophora of the 'Siboga' Expedition with its rather crude illustrations dealt with thirty-two good species, mostly under synonyms of current names; ten of them were new, two indeterminate. It may, therefore, be useful to give in parallel columns the authors' and the current names.

[TABLE]
TABLE III
Modern names	Lens & van Riemsdijk's names
1. Chelophyes contorta (L. & v. R.)	Diphyes contorta sp.n.
2. Diphyes dispar (Cham. & Eysen.)	Diphyes dispar Cham. et Eys.
	D. Nierstraszi 'sp.n.'
	Diphyopsis campanulifera Q. & G.
	Ersaea lessoni Huxley
	Diphyopsis anomala 'sp.n.'
3. Diphyes bojani (Esch.)	Diphyes indica 'sp.n.'
	Diphyes (Diphyopsis) Malayana 'sp.n.'
	Diphyes (Diphyopsis) Gegenbauri 'sp.n.'
	Doromasia pictoides 'sp.n.'
	Ersaea bojani Esch.
4. Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley)	Diphyopsis diphyoides 'sp.n.'
	Eudoxia campanula Hkl.
5. Lensia subtiloides (L. & v. R.)	Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides sp.n.
6. Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis (Blain.)	Galeolaria quadrivalvis Les.
7. Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars)	Galeolaria biloba M. Sars
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: in the right-hand column of the table, printed braces group the five names against entry 2, the five names against entry 3, and the two names against entry 4.]
