[PAGE 33]
[RUNNING HEAD] PARASITES : TERMINOLOGY	33

3.   In A there are numerous bracts, possibly homologous with palpons, but no one bract appears to be specially associated with a gonophore. In B there is only a single bract in each stem-group, surrounding the base of the gastrozooid and gonophores.
4.   In A the cormidia as a rule do not separate from the terminal part of the stem, except perhaps in Apolemia. In B the stem-groups do separate except in the Hippopodiidae and are set free as eudoxids.
5.   In A the individual gonophores are numerous, somewhat reduced and perhaps do not always separate from the cormidia. In B they are fully formed functional medusoids, which break away from the freed stem-groups, the eudoxids, when the eggs and sperms are ripening, and lead a free existence as sexually mature adults.

To sum up: in Cystonectae and Physonectae reduction has taken place in the medusoid-bearing secondary larvae (palpons) and in the adult medusoids (gonophores); also the cormidia do not separate but remain as the stem or middle part of the nurse-carrier; and lastly the stem bracts have multiplied. In the Calycophorae the float has disappeared; none of the gastrozooids as a rule are reduced (unless the bract is such a person), but each in turn breaks away with a single bract and functional medusoids (gonophores), which in their turn become detached from the stem-groups to lead a free sexually adult life.

All this indicates that there have been, so to speak, many changes of tack in the course of phylogeny, and it is exceedingly difficult to try to reconstruct the course. It would seem that the failure to separate on the part of the cormidia in Cystonectae and Physonectae is a secondary condition, which has led to permanent stem-formation with increase in the number of stem-bracts and reduction of gastrozooids to form a new type of polyp (essentially in the larval phase), the Palpon, which bears the adults, the Gonophores; whereas in the Calycophorae the gonophores are borne on the bases of unreduced gastrozooids. If the bract is interpreted as a former palpon, and gonophore and palpon as arising as a twin bud, this difference would not be fundamental, because both bract and palpon can be regarded as reduced gastrozooids.

PARASITES

Parasites of two groups – trematodes and dinoflagellates – are known to infest calycophore siphonophores. There is also an amphipod parasite.

I have described (1954) how a specimen of Hippopodius hippopus taken at Villefranche bore fifty trichocercous cercariae (with eyes), probably the larval stage (Cercaria setifera Monticelli) of the trematode Lepocraedium album Stossich. They made tubular tunnels into the mesogloea and lost their tails.

Of the second group, Rose & Cachon (1951) described the infestation of siphonophores by an interesting peridinian. In 1953 Cachon described the life-cycle of this animal, Diplomorpha paradoxa Rose & Cachon. Dr. Cachon has a great deal of unpublished information on these parasites.

TERMINOLOGY

The Siphonophora exhibit the highest degree of polymorphism of all the Hydrozoa. Both polypoid and medusoid persons occur, but none of them correspond fully to the typical hydroid forms. Both polypoid and medusoid persons are budded from the oozooid, which is the larval form developed from the fertilized egg.

[NOTE: in numbered paragraph 3 the capital "B" of "In B there" carries a heavy ink blot overprinting it, and the word space between "B" and "there" has closed up in the printing; read here as "In B there".]
