[PAGE 128]

128	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

canals straight, nectosac relatively small. There is a ring of minute red pigment flecks and tubercles round the ostium.

Eudoxid phase

The eudoxid has a large asexual nectophore and a group of unisexual reduced gonophores. There is a median pear shaped vesicle – the central organ – at the junction of the four main bracteal canals. Eudoxids of both sexes on one and the same stem.

Desmophyes annectens Haeckel, 1888

Plate XXII, figures 4–6; Plate XXIV, figures 1–9

Praya diphyes Kölliker, 1853; Vogt, 1854 (non P. diphyes Lesson, 1843 = Rosacea cymbiformis (Ch.)
Lilyopsis diphyes auct. Non L. diphyes Moser, 1917 = L. rosea
Praya filiformis (Ch.) Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861
Desmophyes annectens Haeckel 1888b
Rosacea plicata: Kawamura, 1915 (non sensu Bigelow, 1911b)

The largest specimen found by Vogt had a stem one metre in length which bore one hundred eudoxids.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXII, fig. 4; Pl. XXIV, figs. 1–3)

Nectophores: Rounded, wedge-shaped in lateral view, measuring up to 30 mm in length × 15 mm, soft and very transparent, and only loosely joined together, the younger one of the pair – several reserve nectophores may be present at the same time – being clasped only by the upper region of the hydroecium of the older. The somatocyst, simple and club-ended, lies obliquely in the mesogloea. The lateral radial canals are straight and do not meander as in Rosacea. The relatively small nectosac occupies only the lower part of the nectophore, its ostium directed downwards and outwards. Round the ostium is a ring of minute red pigment flecks and tubercles.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXII, figs. 5, 6; Pl. XXIV, figs. 4, 7)

The bract is rounded on the proximal side (above) and bounded below by two lateral, hydroecial flaps. There is a relatively large asexual medusoid and a bunch of smaller gonophores at its base, all of one sex in a single cormidium, but the sexes alternate from one cormidium to the next. A very characteristic feature not found in Praya or Rosacea spp. is a median, pear-shaped vesicle, the so-called central organ (Pl. XXII, figs. 5, 6; Pl. XXIV, fig. 4) which lies at the junction of the main bracteal canals. In addition, there are the four main canals found in Praya and Rosacea spp.

Kefferstein & Ehler's use of the name filiformis has priority, but is ruled out as a nomen oblatum by recent changes in the Rules of Nomenclature. It seems best, therefore, to use the name annectens of Haeckel (1888a, b). There would have been no possible doubt about the identity of Haeckel's form if only a single pair of nectophores had been described. But we know that in prayines there may be a succession of at least seven nectophores, although it is unusual to see six large ones all attached at the same time as shown by Haeckel. Therefore, I doubt if the presence of six nectophores is a specific characteristic of Desmophyes annectens, and we may use the name for specimens with only two fully formed ones such as Kölliker, Vogt, and Kefferstein & Ehlers have described.

Moser has introduced a great deal of confusion into the nomenclature by confusing specific identities.

Vogt (1854) reported that this species was not uncommon in the neighbourhood of Nice (Villefranche) but there are no records of it there since that time. This may be due to the fact that non-specialists could easily confuse it with the better known Rosacea cymbiformis. It is very desirable that

[NOTE: the first synonymy line opens a parenthesis "(non P. diphyes Lesson, 1843 = Rosacea cymbiformis (Ch.)" which is not closed in the printed text; transcribed as printed. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]
