[PAGE 211]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	211

[NOTE: the upper part of this page is set in two unequal columns — a narrow left column
holding text-figure 143 and its caption, and a wide right column of text beginning with the
heading "Abyla ingeborgae Sears, 1953". Below them the type returns to the full measure at
"than basal ventrolateral. (5) …". The lower part of the page is again in two columns — the
left holding the "Abyla bicarinata" text, the right holding text-figure 144 and its caption.
Each band is given here left column first, then right column.]

[FIGURE]
1MM.

FIG. 143. Abyla haeckeli L. & v. R. Eudoxid phase. Gonophore, × 16, Gt. Barrier Reef (from Totton, 1932, fig. 13).
[/FIGURE]

Abyla ingeborgae Sears, 1953

A. ingeborgae Totton, 1954

This species resembles A. haeckeli in many ways. The anterior nectophores of A. haeckeli reported on by Browne (1926) from the Indian Ocean prove to be intermediate in total size, the relative size of the apicoventral facet, and the size and position of the lateral projections (see Totton, 1954, p. 151). Specimens of Abyla spp. do not all fit neatly into Sears's categories.

Whilst I am still not satisfied that this form is a distinct species I list the characters said by Sears to differentiate it from haeckeli.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   (1) Ventral facet only about one half as wide at the insertion of the horizontal ridge as it is high from this point to its basal tip (ab = ½ cd, text-fig. 144; Sears fig. 13E).   (2) Width of nectophore only about two-thirds its height. The lateral protrusions relatively inconspicuous and relatively high up. (3) Horizontal ridge in side view well above middle of somatocyst, not well below as in haeckeli. (4) Apical ventrolateral facet, in consequence, smaller than basal ventrolateral. (5) Dorsal facet is almost a perfect rectangle (not tapered at top as in schmidti or bowed on sides as in some species). (6) The only serrations are at the base of dorsal wall of hydroecium.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 145A, B):   (1) Comb has five teeth. (2) Basal border of right (sensu Sears) ventral wing 'more nearly triangular' (? straight) than concave. (3) Dorsal tooth smaller and less prominent than in haeckli. (4) Right lateral tooth almost as large as left, with a well defined ridge (in haeckeli right tooth is the smaller). (5) Ventral extent of basal margin of right (sensu Sears) ventral wing not delimited by strong teeth, and ventral margin not as thickened as in haeckeli.

In my experience all such characters are very variable.

Eudoxid phase

Bract resembles that of haeckeli with conspicuous dorsal tooth and ridge.

Abyla bicarinata Moser, 1925
Plate XXXVIII, figures 4–7

A. bicarinata Sears, 1953
A. brownia Sears, 1953

This species is characterised by the width of the nectophores.   A complete polygastric specimen was taken on October 16, 1951, at 'Discovery' Station 2893 in a haul from 92 m to the surface. The following description is taken from Sears (1953).

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVIII, figs. 4–7)

Anterior nectophore:   Wider than long, lateral ridges forming wing-like expansions. Edges of the facets rounded and tumid. There is no depression or furrow ventral to transverse apical ridge. Owing to the peculiar arrangement of facets and ridges, in a lateral view, the whole of the somatocyst may be seen through the ventrolateral facet.

[FIGURE]
a
c
b
v.c
d

FIG. 144.   Abyla ingeborgae Sears Polygastric phase. Anterior nectophore (schematic).
v.c = ventral facet; for other lettering see text.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: "haeckli" in item (3) of the "Posterior nectophore" paragraph is so printed, evidently
a printer's error for "haeckeli". The query in "(? straight)" is printed inside round
parentheses, not square brackets; there are no printed square brackets on this page. The scale
bar of text-figure 143 is lettered "1MM." in small capitals, set horizontally above the bar.]
