[PAGE 29]
[RUNNING HEAD] REPRODUCTION	29

of the oozooid and generally buds of nectophores on the other side (text-fig. 19, p. 55, and Totton (1956), fig. 1).

B.   Calycophorae. Four growth phases are found:

1.   Larval phase comprising the whole oozooid with its precocious nectophore (text-figs. 3, 4).
2.   Polygastric phase – the growth stage between larva and eudoxid, comprising nectosome and siphosome with still attached groups of gastrozooids, palpons (in Stephanophyes Pl. XXVI, fig. 1, only), bracts when present, and buds of gonophores (text-fig. 8, and Pl. XXX).
3.   Eudoxid phase – the last growth stage before the setting free of the mature individual gonophore medusoids, when the groups have separated (text-fig. 9).
4.   The mature free adult medusoid phase – the free-swimming gonophores (text-fig. 10).

The two poles – oral and aboral – of the mature siphonophore, even when the stem reaches a length of fifty metres or more as it may in Apolemia, are precisely those of the original oozooid now immensely elongated, namely the mouth of the protozooid and in cystonects and physonects the apex of the pneumatophore, or in the calycophores the upper end of the stem. Although the various polyps and medusoids may move or feed independently, or groups of them break away and lead a free existence, yet there is co-ordination of the whole nurse-carrier. Examples of this can be seen when an agalmid, a forskaliid, a prayid or a diphyid contracts and initiates an evasive swimming-movement; when the stem of a prayid relaxes and the medusoids swim all together to extend the drift-net-like expanse of tentacles; or when, on stimulating the pneumatophore of a Physophora, the heavily armed tips of the ring of palpons are thrown up to the spot, probably in a defensive movement (Pl. XV, fig. 10). Again a small diphyid like Chelophyes appendiculata, which in a resting position is orientated with its long axis vertical, makes occasionally a few slow contractions of the nectosac of the larger nectophore to overcome the effect of sinking, and when stimulated makes a long series of co-ordinated contractions of both nectophores which provides a high-speed evasive mechanism. Another example is provided by Physalia. The stimulation of a wounded fish causes many gastrozooids to become active, open their mouths and attach them, spread-out, side by side on to the surface of the fish which is then digested. Physalia alone among the siphonophores is a passive drifter at the surface of the sea. The physonect Athorybia can swim up to the surface by co-ordinated movement of its paddling bracts, while other physonects swim by co-ordinated movements of the series of nectophores; the direction of the propulsive jets made by these nectophores can be changed to bring about a reversal of the main direction of progression. The nerve that initiates this change was first observed by Dr. G. O. Mackie (text-fig. 12).

REPRODUCTION

I should like to repeat here that the fully grown siphonophore is an over-grown, larval nurse-carrier (paedophore) that does not itself become sexually mature. The nurse-carrier gives rise to adult medusoid gonophores of both sexes, though each single gonophore is either male or female. Only one example of a unisexual siphonophore is known, Physalia physalis, in which all the adults are of one sex only in each animal. In the Physonectae, gonophores of both sexes occur in any cormidium. In Nanomia, there is an arrangement of particular interest, the sexes of the groups of gonophores (borne in pairs at the bases of the palpons) alternating from side to side as successive palpons are budded (text-fig. 36, p. 71). In the Calycophorae, where also there is repetitive budding of stem-groups (later
