[PAGE 2]

[NOTE: English typescript, born-digital and clean; the folio 2 is centred at the head of the page and belongs to the typescript's own sequence, not to the 1976 journal pagination. Binomials are italicised in the original; italics are not marked here. The author's typos are kept as printed ("has often bee dealt with"), as is the mixture of a short hyphen and an en dash for the same parenthetical dash. The panel letter Г in "fig. 2, Г" is Cyrillic Ghe; the panel letters A and B are Latin.]

complete their life cycle. The distribution of planktonic animals is greatly affected by the degree of water exchange between water masses in different parts of the Atlantic.

Siphonophores inhabit all the climatic zones of the Atlantic. In the North Atlantic there is one arctic species Marrus orthocanna. Its habitat base may be in the Polar Basin while its emigration zone may be in the Barents Sea and North Atlantic (fig. 1, 1). The habitat base of Nanomia cara lies in the north subpolar zone and possibly also in the waters of the slope of the emigration zone – in the North Atlantic Current (fig. 1, 4). In the southern hemisphere two species - Diphyes antarctica and Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni – have their habitat in the Antarctic with its base in the West Wind Drift (fig. 1, 2). Further two species of siphonophore - Marrus antarcticus and Muggiaea bargmannae – have a bipolar distribution. In the southern hemisphere their habitat base lies in the western zone of subpolar waters in the Pacific and the polar basin (fig. 1, 3). The habitat structure of the above species allows us to regard them as endemic to polar – M. orthocanna – and subpolar – N. cara, D. antarctica, P. vanhoeffeni, M. antarcticus and M. bargmannae – waters. It is important to establish the endemic groups in polar and subpolar waters because tropical species are often carried into the subpolar regions of the Atlantic. The question as to which species are to be regarded as endemic to these regions has often bee dealt with in the literature (Bigelow, 1911; Moser, 1913, 1920; Kramp, 1942).

The majority of siphonophores are tropical species but are not uniformly distributed in the tropical waters of the Atlantic, evidently because of their differing relationship to environmental factors.

Tropical siphonophores are, in the main, distributed broadly throughout the tropical zone. The habitat bases of these species lie in both central water masses – in the tropical and subtropical zones. The large number of those species which are widely distributed in the tropical zones reflects the fact that there are no sharply defined hydrological boundaries in tropical waters. In the migration zones of the widely distributed tropical species is revealed their differing relationship to the environmental factors. Several are hardly ever encountered outside the northern and southern subtropical zones and have a very small emigration zone (fig. 2, Г). The other group of species that are widely distributed in tropical waters have extensive migration zones in both hemispheres (fig. 2, A). Their habitat boundaries run through various parts of the transition zone where a significant transformation of the tropical water takes place. The position of the habitat boundaries in these regions is probably due to the absolute importance of some hydrological factor. One may assume that the distribution of some species of siphonophores that are widely distributed in the tropical waters in their migration zones depends on the water temperature as the habitat boundaries follow several isotherms (Fig 2, B).

The number of species of siphonophores drops rapidly along the southern periphery of the southern subtropical zone (v. position of distribution boundaries of 50% of species in fig. 2, A, B). This was noted by Leloup and Hentschel (1935) who carried out studies on the distribution of several species of calycophores in a 200m layer. Most probably the distribution of tropical siphonophores in this eutrophic region is restricted by the low temperature.

A good example of the effect of individual factors on the distribution of siphonophores is found along the southwest coast of Africa. The boundaries of the habitats of the majority of species which are widespread in the tropical zones in this region are turned northwards by the cold waters of the Benguela current, while those of some other species are deflected to the south. Evidently, the important factor for
