[PAGE 4]

[NOTE: English typescript, born-digital and clean; folio 4 centred at the head of the page. Binomials are italicised in the original; italics are not marked here. The figure-panel letters are a mixture of scripts, as printed: Cyrillic Б in "fig. 2, Б" and "fig. 3, Б", but Latin C in "fig 2, C" (the panel the Russian original letters В) and Latin A in "Fig. 3, A".]

independent population. Colonies of several species do not migrate beyond the subtropical zone, probably because they are not able to withstand the change in the water of the North Atlantic. But colonies of these same species are carried northwards to England and the Faroe Islands having become acclimatised to the significant transformation of Mediterranean water. Evidently, in the differing relationships to the change in the water in which the base of the habitat is situated is revealed by the physiological variety of the species population from different areas of the ocean.

A group of siphonophores have been discovered amongst the Atlantic tropical siphonophores which has an asymmetric distribution and which populates only one of the homological biotypes in the tropical waters of the Atlantic – The North Atlantic central water mass. These are the northern central equatorial species (fig. 2, Б) the habitat bases of which may lie in the northern subtropical and both tropical zones. The migration zones lie only in the regions of the southern subtropical zone. Possibly the origin of these habitats is associated with the asymmetry of the hydrological processes in relation to the equator, i.e. with the fact that the hydrological boundaries have moved to the north, while in the northern hemisphere the hydrological gradients are more in the west (Sverdrup, 1942; Burkov, 1972). The migration zones of the northern central-equatorial species in the northern hemisphere and of the widespread tropical species are similar. In the southern hemisphere the migration zones are in those regions where water comes from the tropical zones either as a result of exchange between the tropical zone and the northern part of the southern subtropical zone, or coming via the Brazil Current and the equatorial undercurrent.

The distribution of several tropical siphonophore species is associated with the coastal modification of the waters. It is here that the tropical neritic (fig 2, C) and the tropical distant-neritic species live. The habitat bases of the neritic species may lie in the coastal waters, while the habitat bases of the distant-neritic species lie in the neutral regions between the tropical and sub-tropical zones and in the Caribbean and Mediterranean. As yet there is little information on the migration zones of these species.

The trophic characteristics of the waters are more important for the distribution of part of the tropical siphonophores than the abiotic environmental factors. The most productive waters in the tropical areas of the Atlantic are inhabited by peripheral and equatorial species. Two species inhabit the northern periphery of the northern subtropical zone and intersect the ocean in the equatorial area - Abyla trigona and Amphicaryon acaule. Lensia hardy (Fig. 3, A) inhabits the southern periphery of the southern subtropical zone as well as the more productive regions off the coast of Africa. The habitat bases of the peripheral species lie in the small zones of water around the Bahamas (northern species), off the coast of South America and, possibly, off southwest Africa (a southern species). The migration areas of peripheral species encompass the whole periphery of the corresponding zones.

Equatorial siphonophores have their habitat bases in one or both tropical zones. Atlantic equatorial siphonophores are encountered from coast to coast. The migration areas of these species are more or less extensive but always occur in the eutrophic areas of the ocean. Several equatorial siphonophores are even encountered off South West Africa where the upwelling of waters of the equatorial counter-current is observed (fig. 3, Б).

A description of the cosmopolitan habitat of siphonophores based on the example of the distribution of Dimophyes arctica apparently points to the fact that amongst the siphonophores there is a sufficiently eurybiotic species living in all biogeographical area of the pelagic realm. However, on the boundaries of this habitat
