[PAGE 5: unnumbered]

The numerous thick, hard bracts which protrude at right angles to the stem closely surround the stem leaving practically no space between each other. They may vary in size but the shape  is always the same. They are oar-like or diagonally oblique drill-like. The end near the stem is a blunt wedge while the other ends in the form of a parallelogram as if  it was cut off. The external surface of the bract is divided into 4 small surfaces by ridges. With the exception of the centre ridge a still smaller space is formed at the lower end of each remaining ridge - in each case each area is slightly depressed. The upper side of the bract is raised as a whole, it has indistinct ridges along its arrow-like stem, dropping to right and left. The underside is very much like the upper, only often found to be saddle-like. Within the bract a small canal runs from the inner attachment along the median line on the underside and connects with the coelenteron by a tubular canal.

In each cormidium there are usually 8 bracts, 4 each on the right and left. There manner of piling, too, is quite orderly and 8 rows of bracts are developed about the entire siphosome. For example, on the left side, the left end of the first row of bracts lies slightly over the right end of the second row of bracts - thus 3rd and 4th in order - those of the right contrast those of the let. Thus opposite rows are a mirror image of one another. Furthermore, the size of the bracts  increases from the dorsal side toward the ventral side.

The bracts on the ventral side of the siphosome do not grow so closely as on the dorsal or lateral sides. Instead, between the lateral bracts there is a slight space through which palpons, tentacles and siphons are extruded.

Rarely 9 bracts are found on a cormidium in which case the extremely small additional bract is developed on the dorsal side considerably later than the normal set. Chun has, however, recorded his finding of an internodal bract on an Agalma in the Atlantic Ocean. This specimen did not have a canal running through the bract and thus differs from this author's specimen. Furthermore, I have not yet seen a so-called "internodal bract" [i.e. no canal & dorsal] in either Agalma or Crystallomia.

Up to the present, the manner in which siphonophore bracts attach themselves to the stem have been described in many different ways, but none of the descriptions are clear. For example, Haeckel (1888) in describing the Atlantic species of Crystallodes, stated that the inner end of the bract is pointed, by which it attaches itself to the stem, and even in other species it was similarly defined and also shown in the illustrations. Huxley (1859) on the other hand, insisted that in Stephanomia the bracts are attached by a triangular process, while Claus (1879) also reported the presence of very muscular stalk in Halistemma. Fewkes (1881), too, figures the growth of a somewhat similar part in Agalmopsis elegans. However, a discussion of this is omitted here.

The author has definitely observed the presence of a fine muscular stalk on all 5 Japanese genera of Agalmidae examined. The position on the stem from which the petal-like forms develop is similar to the connecting lamella of the nectophore and the growth of laterally flat connecting lamella is like the pages of a book on both sides of the stem as can be seen when the 4 bracts are aligned on one side as is the case in Agalma. However, the bract and the connecting lamella attach themselves longitudinally along the stem but never by the pointed end of bracts as Haeckel described. Such a structural arrangement is easily understandable. If examined more closely under a magnifying glass, it can be easily seen without dissection.

 The developmental stages of the bract are well known and have been described by such investigators as Claus and Agassiz for siphonophores in this family. But the findings of the author on these same species were not of as simple

[NOTE: "There manner of piling" and "those of the let" are printed thus (for "Their" and "left"); transcribed as printed.]
