[PAGE 3: unnumbered]

nectosac. With this circular canal, it comes connected with both the superior and inferior canals.

There has been a theory as to how the nectophore is attached to the stem. When the nectophore is separated from the stem, the attached part (lamella?) of the entire nectophore aligns on one side of the stem. Consequently, it has also been a commonly accepted fact that growth of nectophores in 2 rows is nothing more than the result of a twisting of the axis. This interpretation was accepted not only be Claus and Gegenbaur, but also by many other scientists and it is as yet a widely used definition in many books today. However, this theory was later learned to be erroneous. In 1897, Chun corrected this theory of constriction with his "Knospungsgesetz der Schwimmglocken" which states that the nectophore budding at the ventral side buds lateral to both sides [i.e. moves alternately from one side to the other], the stalk of the mature nectophore becomes the supporting lamella (Stielamella), a rectangular membrane, and bends at both ends, hence, its lateral alignments. Following this presentation of Chun's definition, Schneider offered a very strongly refuted interpretation but it was nothing more than a hypothesis without the proof of actual observations of a specimen. The facts that the stem of the nectosome is not at all twisted, and the growth of the supporting lamella (Stiellamella) [peduncular lamella] laterally from the ventral side to both left and right were easily verified by this author with 5 species of this family and the genus Physophora, and further these facts can be readily recognised when the living specimens are inspected. Thus, it is difficult to understand why such errors were never corrected during all these years. It is, therefore, sufficient to say that many records in the past in the field must have been similarly based on incorrect definitions of the specimens.

As has been described previously, the nectophores bud one by one from directly below the pneumatophore. Therefore, if their young forms attach in a group at this point, are studied, the various stages of growth can be easily observed. Hence, it is possible to learn how they develop.

Although this was known to Leuckart, Kölliker, Vogt and Claus etc. with various genera studied, in 1860 Claus further continued the study of this question with Stephanomia contorta.

Our species of Agalma, too, has a multiple row of juvenile nectophores directly under the pneumatophore, therefore, this genus is a most ideal object in retracing the developmental stages of nectophores and generally coincides with what has already been described by other investigators. However, our species differ in one respect - that is, during the growth of the radial canal to left and right (this will be discussed later) it temporarily develops a sac-like inflated part [diverticulum]. Briefly describing it at this time, the author may say that the nectophore at first buds out from the stem like a nipple with ectoderm and endoderm. This process is shaped like a ball at first but shortly becomes flash-shaped as its basal part becomes constricted its terminal ectoderm layer forms a depression (groove) in which the buds of the bells (Glockenkern) are developed. The neck of the "flask" later becomes a longitudinally flat membrane (sac) then a supporting lamella (Stiellamella) which has been described already. The coelenteron within, gradually, connects the cavity between the stem and the nectophore and then the inflated part of the "flask" that constitutes the main part of the nectophore by taking a laterally symmetrical form as it is slowly pressed both upward and downward. Prior to this, a division of the central part becomes transparent and goes out through an opening while the ectoderm (outside layer) becomes, a so-called superior covering layer of the inside of the nectosac. The muscular wall of the nectosac develops from doubled endoderm by
