[PAGE 4: unnumbered]

forming a depression because the growth of the nectophores (Glockenkern). As the space between these double layers gradually disappears when they heal together, a part of the nectosac grows into a circular canal and 4 radial canals of the nectophore. From this doubled endoderm toward the outer side - that is, between endoderm and ectoderm the gelatinous substance  is produced. This is most conspicuous at the sides of the base, and gradually spreads toward the other parts, finally lifting the ectoderm. The cells forming the ectoderm can be seen like a superior covering layer of beautiful paving stones in a young nectophore but such a condition cannot be seen when fully developed [sometimes]

Of the 4 radial canals, the lateral ones develop an inflated section at the end of the "horns" of the nectosac [diverticulum]. The inflated part, at first, is large and long but gradually decreases in its circumference and length finally disappearing completely. Consequently, in a fully developed nectophore such an inflated section cannot be seen. However, with an ordinary specimen a trace of this growth can be easily seen, even with the naked eye, on several nectophores situated on the nectosome. [No connection or homology between these diverticula and the 'rete' in H. hippopus]

This temporary growth of an inflated part, since it also has a bearing on the exterior shape of the nectophore, does not occur in the genus Crystallomia which has one less longitudinal ridge on the lateral side of the nectophore as compared with the genus Agalma. [!!!?]

The growth of an inflated part on the radial canal has been made known by Eschscholtz as early as 1829. He, however, wrongly identified it as a part of the nectosac (of the nectophore). Aside from this observation this particular developmental stage in the entire siphonophore group has never been reported except in the genus Hippopodius [ventr. sinus]. In this genus the part forms the shape of a war-truncheon (see above) on the ventral radial canal, and it is a permanent organ while the same part in the genus Agalma is a temporary development. Now, if this question of the structural difference of these radial canals is to be stressed, the taxonomic classification is still further divided sometimes as either Monophyidae or Diphyidae. In any case, their structural characteristics, perhaps, may be similar to the inflation of the radial canal in the case of Agalma okeni.

Toward the lower half of the body is the siphosome, consisting, according to our observations, 0f 5 to 15 connected cormidia. Each cormidium consists of a bract, a palpon, a siphon, a tentacle and a gonodendron. Of course, the lower the position of a cormidium the older it is. The siphosome as a whole is almost equal in length to the nectosome but slightly greater in width. But since the entire surface is covered with thick polygonal bracts, it can be safely said that neither the longitudinal nor the lateral dimension changes at all [passing from nectosome to siphosome]. It should be noted that since the stem (which is the axis of the body) twists 90° between the nectosome and siphosome without their ventral sides [? so that ventral sides are not aligned?] coming together [and so] the nectophores of the nectosome growing toward left and right meet the dorsal and ventral side of the siphosome respectively. [ NO twist. The growing points of nectosome and siphosome are on opposite sides of larva in Agalmids (see my large series of larvae of S. bijuga from Villefranche.] Generally, the width of the nectosome and the dimension between the dorsal and the ventral sides of the siphosome are greater. Consequently, this 90° twist in the stem makes their shapes ideally adapted to each other. Further, this structural characteristic seems to be significant in the locomotion of the animal.

[NOTE: "0f 5 to 15 connected cormidia" is printed with a zero for the o of "of"; transcribed as printed. In the marginal comment "opposite" is underlined in the original.]
