[PAGE 6: unnumbered]

nature as had been reported. First of all, at the upper end of the siphosome many new cormidia grow one after another, so that bracts in various stages of development can always be seen on close examination. At first, the bract is vesicular with ectoderm and endoderm as is usual in any polyp and protrudes from the stem into the water. This bud is shaped like a nipple, but gradually extends to form a spindle. Later, the inner end develops a stalk with a pointed outer end. From this, as in nectophores a gelatinous substance develops rapidly in the inter-dermal space. Finally the mature form is reached. However, the growth of the gelatinous substance is not uniform. At first, the inner half of this spindle-shaped process attained a longitudinal form as it is pressed from right and left while the outer half gradually moves downward so that the process resembles long boots. The coelenteron in the developing bract spindle-like in form is connected with the stem through contact with the coelenteron of the supporting lamella on the inner side of the bract. Then, at the parts simulating the back and both sides of the foot part of this "boot", the growth of gelatinous substance becomes exceedingly vigorous but its "toes" appear to be cut off. This surface becomes divided into 6 smaller sections.

In the development of a bract as in the case of a nectophore, the endoderm is lifted up as the gelatinous substance increases and the ectodermal cells arranged like paving stones sometimes attach themselves to the surface of the gelatinous substance. Furthermore, here and there are scattered wart-like processes with groups of nematocysts. By this time the size of the canal inside the bract is not uniform, inflating like a spindle near the outside. And the outer ectodermal later lining the coelenteron [??] can be seen very clearly. However, when the bract completes its growth, these inner and outer cells completely disappear without trace and the canal is thread-like. But the growth of the gelatinous substance is quite vigorous near the upper and lateral surfaces while weak on the lower side. Consequently, this canal runs near the under side of the bract. Finally, therefore, the pointed process present in the beginning is comparable to the lower and to the median line of the 3 longitudinal ridges seen from the outside.

When all the bracts attached to the siphosome are removed, other individuals can be clearly seen among which the most numerous and conspicuous are the palpons.

Located on the ventral side of the stem are the small, transparent, spindle-shaped palpons with extremely thin layers. These contract vigorously and have other movements. The pointed end is surrounded by numerous nematocysts and the small palpon filament grows from its base. This small filament is covered by many small bunches of nematocysts equally spaced. These have been observed on the tentacles of other siphonophores, but they have not been recognised on the palpon filament before insofar as the author is aware. in an earlier report, it is stated that "there is perhaps a palpon filament on various species of Agalma but it has not been possible to detect it so far". No one, as yet, has detected this growth [?] This is probably due to its extremely small size and in addition it is also very difficult to detect the presence of such a structure in a preserved specimen which may have lost it either partially or completely. Usually, the growth of the palpon and the palpon filament [is] horizontal and toward the ventral side, but this does not necessarily limit its development in other directions. The number of palpons on a cormidium does not ordinarily exceed 15, including both young and old individuals. However, the distribution of the palpons is more or less orderly, divided into 2 groups one group encircling the upper, right and left sides of the siphon while the others cover the similar sides of the male and female gonophores. Each cormidium has a slightly larger siphon, with a short stalk, a cylindrical basal part, a wide, easily expandable stomach and a proboscis able
