[PAGE 8: unnumbered]

Crystallomia

6 rows of bracts; 2 longitudinal ridges [? one on each side] on the lateral surface of the nectophore.

Crystallomia polygonata Dana [? juvenile form of A. okeni]
Plate 16; Figs 1-12 [9-14], Vol. 22
most common names given; [is this translation of Kawamura?]

Agalma breve Huxley [1.8 cm. a juvenile specimen of A. okeni (only 1 vert. ridge on each lat. facet of nect.)]
Crystallodes rigidum Haeckel
Crystallodes vitrea Haeckel
Stephanomia incisa Schneider
Agalma pourtalesii A. Agassiz and Mayer
Agalma virida Mayer
(Translators remark: above names are referred to Japanese name.)

This species does not occur as often as the previous species. The general shape is similar to Agalma okeni but smaller. The specimens studied by the author were approximately 5 to 8 cm in length and 1.5-2 cm in width. The species has one ridge on its [nectophore] lateral surface and two rows of nectophores constitute the nectosome forming an octagonal column.

When the nectophore [nectosome] is observed from either the ventral or dorsal side, the smallness of the longitudinally running ridges in comparison to Agalma okeni can be easily recognised. These differences are extremely helpful in identification of the 2 siphonophores discussed herein.

The various stages of growth are generally identical to the previous species and the only difference is that this species does not develop a temporary inflated part on the 2 lateral radial canals of the nectosac. Consequently, the inflated part is difficult [impossible] to detect even on the young nectophores at the apex of the nectosome. The siphon is formed with a group of 6 to 10 stems [?palpons] and the exterior surface of 6 rows of bract which encircle the siphosome are divided into 4 small areas by 3 ridges. However, 2 further divided areas of the surface as in the case of Agalma okeni is not common. The most outstanding distinction between these siphonophores is the differences in the structure of the tentacular lateral branches. With this species, the spiral turn of the cnidoband does not exceed more than 4 to 5 times and the terminal ampulla has a ciliary growth and the lateral horns do not reach the length of the terminal ampulla, having nematocyst only on one side. The number of palpons, too, is smaller in comparison with the previous species, generally not more than 10.

The discussion in reference to the relation of these two species of siphonophores and of other genera of this family will be made later.
