[PAGE 7: unnumbered]

to open and close with the capacity to contract and expand readily. Inside of the stomach are 8 lines of hepatic ridges [English words used in text].

The young siphons can be identified quite easily as they are, in the early stages of development most conspicuous with their processes common with the polypoid individuals. Then the ectoderm suddenly starts to grow, attaining its thickness, during which numerous nematocysts are seen to develop. Subsequently, after the completion of the basal part, the stomach and the proboscis are developed as the ectoderm and endoderm extend forward.

A tentacle develops from the upper side of each siphon stalk, the tentacle is long and narrow with knots (tied parts) [nodes] equally spaced, from whose individual nodes lateral branches grow. Each lateral branch has a small elongated stalk, the cnidoband encased in an involucre, a terminal ampulla and two lateral horns. The cnidoband is a beautifully red colour, narrow felt-like part which turns 7 to 9 times in a spiral fashion. On this not only countless number of nematocysts are arranged but on the half near the base exceedingly large nematocysts are found attached along the sides. On the lateral horns, too, many small nematocysts are scattered and the  involucre is formed by an assemblage of colourless, transparent, polygonal cells.

On the development of the cnidoband a more detailed discussion will be made with Physophora at a later date. However, at this time, a brief account of developmental stages of this particular genus will be given below. When a siphon gradually attains its length after budding, other slightly smaller long and slender buds can be seen growing at the base of this siphon, which is actually a tentacle on whose dorsal part found attached in a row are bead-like processes that subsequently become the lateral branches. As one of these processes grows into 3 different parts after attaining an elongated cylindrical shape the first part simply continues its growth in the original form finally becoming the stalk while the second part commences to hold numerous nematocysts on one side of its ectoderm, gradually bending into a spiral shape and finally forming a cnidoband in band-like fashion. The end of the third part longitudinally separates into 3 sections, the middle one becoming the terminal ampulla and the other two the lateral horns. However, the involucre is developed through the growth of the ectoderm developing near the first and the second parts, as it simply covers the cnidoband at first like a temple bell but later it encloses the cnidoband attaching itself between its original position and the 3 previously described terminal branches.

Numerous male gonodendra develop a pair of male sexual gonophores on the ventral side of the stems. A mature male gonophore is spindle-shaped, 3 mm in length [check in original] 9 mm in width [check in original] and its short stalk is connected to the stalk of the male gonodendra. It is a complete medusoid individual in the spadix of which are found the sex cells, and on its external bell a part analogous to the umbrella, quadriradial and circular canals are situated, but it is extremely difficult to recognise these parts on a live specimen.

A single female gonodendron on which female gonophores are attached is longer than the male gonodendron and on this numerous female gonophores are found, those at the end are most mature. The adult gonophore [gonodendron] is oblong (cylindrical) reaches a size of 21 mm in length and 1.2 mm in width, within which is a single coloured egg which develops on the stalk of the medusa - the coelenteron which, ordinarily should, passes through the stalk, becomes like mesh and encloses the egg. Like the male gonophores it has a quadriradial and circular canal. As far as the development is concerned it will be discussed at another time.
