[PAGE 1: unnumbered]

[NOTE: pp. 1–12 of this PDF are a born-digital typescript English translation of the paper, with the translator's and Totton's bracketed comments; the Japanese original follows later in the file.]

Genus Agalma and Crystallomia
by Tamiji Kawamura
Dobutz, Z. Tokyo 22[23], 1-10, 1911 [No. 267]
[pl. 16 of vol. 22 ?1910]
[Who was "my senior Mr. Kawamura"?]

The bracketed [..] and emboldened comments are Totton's marginalia.

The following siphonophores belong to the family Agalmidae, suborder Physonectae, order Physophorae. The structural features of this family are as follows: the stem is long and cylindrical; the nectosome consists of nectophores in 2 rows; the bracts and palpons are situated on the cormidia; the cnidoband is spiral, either partially or wholly covered by an involucre.

Although the Agalmidae include a large number of comparatively common siphonophores, there are, however, 2 or 3 genera with quite complex characteristics, not found in previous investigations among other members of the family. However, since the classification of a great many of the old genera is indefinite, and rather confusing the taxonomic characters of this family is no different from other families.

Haeckel, in 1888, recorded 10 genera and 32 species of known siphonophores in the "Challenger" report but there must have been an exceedingly large number of species omitted from this report. Consequently, in 1895 Bedot contemplated the reclassification of this family. Also there are 2 or 3 other classifications by other investigators. We do not, of course, altogether lack some sort of taxonomy for the family at present. Yet, considerable difficulties are encountered because no accurate observation of Pacific species has been made for almost a half century, and the specimens caught on the various expeditions are not all sufficient for identification.

Family Agalmidae can be divided into 2 subfamilies as follows:

1. Subfamily Crystallominae
The hard, short siphosome is surrounded by thick, muscular pyramidal bracts; and is almost the same length as the nectosome. The cnidoband is entirely enclosed by an involucre.

2. Subfamily Anthemodinae.
The siphosome is equipped with leaf-like or relatively flat bracts, is soft, and considerably longer than the nectosome. The cnidoband is partially enclosed by a bell-like involucre around its upper part.

Among many siphonophores belonging to this family, observed by the author near Misaki, there were 5 species definitely identified upon close examination of their structure.

Agalma okeni Eschscholtz and Crystallodes polygonata Dana belong to the first subfamily.

Agalmopsis elegans Sars, Stephanomia amphitrides Huxley, and Cupulita picta delle Chiaje [Metschnikoff] are of the second sub-family.

In the following only the first two species shall be discussed leaving others for a later date. For Agalma okeni the Japanese name "Yoraku Kurage" was used by my senior Dr. Kuwano, but Crystallomia polygonata [okeni] the author wishes to name, in Japanese, "Koyoraku Kurage" [Translator's note: "Ko..." signifies either a child or a baby in English] because of its general smallness although quite similar to the former.
