[PAGE 2: unnumbered]

Genus AGALMA
Bracts in 8 rows; 2 longitudinal ridges.
Agalma okeni Eschscholtz. Plate 16, 1-8 [Vol. 22].

This species very commonly occurs near Misaki especially in winter, and in early spring it occurs in large numbers. The body is cylindrical in shape, with rounded ends. Even the small ones attain the size of 8 cm in length, 2 cm in width, while the large ones sometimes exceed 13 cm in length and 3 cm in width. Seeing them float on the sea surface, it is obvious that they reach the surface when the water is calm but a slight sea makes them descend immediately. Generally, the main axis of the body is maintained diagonally but it may sometimes be perpendicular or horizontal.

The body itself is divided into two parts - the upper part is the so-called nectosome and the lower is the siphosome. Through their centre, the axial stem is situated - which is generally in a straight line but occasionally found to be otherwise.

The nectosome is a dodecagonal shaft slightly tapered toward one end, whose diameter is slightly less than that of the opposite end. It consists of a small pneumatophore at the apical end and 2 rows of nectophores (swimming bells) each row partially overlapping each other.

The pneumatophore is a small egg-shaped bag almost twice as high as it is wide and contains reddish brown pigment at its apex. Within the pneumatophore, there is an air sac with 8 partitions giving the appearance of 8 stripes when seen from the outside. If a live specimen is observe, the pneumatophore is often draw into the nectosome by the vigorous contraction of the stalk.

The nectophores bud out from the underside of the pneumatophore one over the other in an orderly manner. The extent of this growth downward is an indication of its age. If a nectophore is examined, it is seen to be bilaterally symmetrical, flattened upwards and downwards, while from the centre toward the rear [inside?] it becomes thinner like an oar.

When observed from above or below the  nectophores resemble the bridge of a stringed instrument ("Koto - Jap. instru.). Both their upper and lower surfaces are large, and they are octagonal in outline. Along the centre of the upper side there is a slight depression forming a gutter running along the median line and on the underside an inconspicuous ridge both extending to the front side, and terminating above and below the opening of the nectosac. Both lateral surfaces of the nectophore are extremely narrow and two perpendicular ridges divide each surface into 3 smaller areas. That is, the forward and the centre parts are square and the terminal end is a triangle. The front (outer) side of the nectophore is small, almost square and the centre is round where the opening of the nectosac is situated around which a wide marginal membrane is found.

The nectosac is comparatively small situated only in the front half of the nectophore and clearly divided into three parts, that is, a median cylindrical part and a pair of coelom-like pouches which branch out from the first part at right angles. The coelenteron growing from the stem, enters the gelatinous part of the nectophore in the median line - that is, at the base of the curve. This canal branches immediately into a pair of simple canals upward and downward while the main canal reached directly the apex of the nectosac by piercing through its gelatinous part. At this point the canal branches out into 4 radial canals. Of these, the superior and inferior radial canals run unbranched along the nectosac (The other canals) first coil on the upper wall of the nectosac and then turn toward the lower wall, finally reaching the mouth of the

[NOTE: the opening quotation mark before "Koto - Jap. instru.)" is unpaired, and "observe" / "draw" appear thus (for "observed" / "drawn"); transcribed as printed.]
