<<<PAGE pdf=1 file=page_001.txt>>>
[PAGE 1: unnumbered]

BRITISH MUSEUM (NATURAL HISTORY)

A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

BY

A. K. TOTTON

assisted by

H. E. BARGMANN

With 153 figures in the text and 40 plates

TRUSTEES OF THE BRITISH MUSEUM (NATURAL HISTORY)
LONDON 1965

<<<PAGE pdf=2 file=page_002.txt>>>
[PAGE 2: unnumbered]

[NOTE: frontispiece printed landscape on a portrait page with no /Rotate flag; type reads bottom-to-top in the PDF page, i.e. the content must be rotated 90° clockwise to be upright. Transcribed as if correctly oriented.]

Frontispiece

OLD AND NEW METHODS OF COLLECTION

[FIGURE]
Left:	Ernst Haeckel and Miklucho-Maclay at Lanzarote, Canary Islands, 1867. Haeckel is holding a Müller-net

Right:	Aqualung divers of Professor Dubuisson's Collecting Expedition at Villefranche, 1963, with their leader. Aqualung divers use plastic bags for collecting siphonophores
[/FIGURE]

<<<PAGE pdf=3 file=page_003.txt>>>
[PAGE 3: unnumbered]

© Trustees of the British Museum (Natural History) 1965

Printed and bound in Great Britain by Eyre and Spottiswoode Limited, Her Majesty's Printers, at
The Thanet Press, Margate

<<<PAGE pdf=4 file=page_004.txt>>>
[PAGE 4: unnumbered]

PREFACE

'In biology,' as Pantin (1963) has said, ' . . . the first essential is to know what you are talking about.' This synopsis attempts to show what actual species of siphonophora we have to deal with. To add to my own observations, I have tried to gather in one place the morphological descriptions contained not only in larger works but also in scattered papers.

The fact that some species have received more lengthy treatment than others is due to the opportunity that offered itself to make good some of the gaps in our knowledge of the Siphonophora. Very few species are well known.

Because the plate- and text-figures have been drawn from many different sources the lettering is not uniform. To re-letter them would have resulted in improvement of the general appearance of the illustrations, but would have entailed further delay.

The plates show the whole animal where possible in the Cystonectæ and Physonectæ, and the polygastric and eudoxid phases in the Calycophoræ.

I am very greatly indebted to Dr. Helene Bargmann for giving untiring help in organizing the account and for seeing it through the press.

A. K. TOTTON.

24 October, 1963

<<<PAGE pdf=5 file=page_005.txt>>>
[PAGE vii]

CONTENTS

[TABLE]
	Page
PREFACE	v
INTRODUCTION	1
HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER
General	3
Huxley	3
Haeckel	6
Lens & van Riemsdijk	13
Bigelow	14
Moser	15
Garstang	15
Leloup	16
GROSS MORPHOLOGY	20
REPRODUCTION	29
PHYLOGENY	30
PARASITES	33
TERMINOLOGY	33
CLASSIFICATION	36
SYSTEMATIC SECTION: Description of families, genera and species	39
Sub-order I	CYSTONECTAE	39
Family 1	Physaliidae	39
,, 2	Rhizophysidae	40
Sub-order II	PHYSONECTAE	44
Family 3	Apolemiidae	45
,, 4	Agalmidae	51
,, 5	Pyrostephidae	76
,, 6	Physophoridae	83
,, 7	Athorybiidae	86
,, 8	Rhodaliidae	91
,, 9	Forskaliidae	96
Sub-order III	CALYCOPHORAE	110
Family 10	Prayidae	110
,, 11	Hippopodiidae	138
,, 12	Diphyidae	142
,, 13	Clausophyidae	192
,, 14	Sphaeronectidae	201
,, 15	Abylidae	204
REFERENCES	222
INDEX OF GENERA AND SPECIES	229
PLATES	following p. 230
[/TABLE]

vii

<<<PAGE pdf=6 file=page_006.txt>>>
[PAGE 1]

INTRODUCTION

This synopsis attempts to gather together our knowledge of the anatomy and ontogeny of the various species of siphonophores, and to throw light on their characteristic organization and their probable origin. As this is a synopsis and not a full length monograph, no sections on Histology and Physiology have been included. Furthermore, there is no section on the distribution of the group, although in the course of sorting plankton collections, voluminous data on distribution have been recorded. But the completion of the synopsis has been considered a matter of some urgency, and therefore time and opportunity to work out these data have not been permitted to me.

The decision as to which so-called 'species' to include and which to exclude is based not so much on published descriptions, which are often inadequate for identification, as on my own knowledge of the animals themselves. For this reason I have given a rather longer treatment to some hitherto less well known forms on which I have been working in recent years. There are very few known species, individuals of which I have not examined myself, which are not represented in the unrivalled collection that I have built up at the British Museum (Natural History). It should be stated at once that the basis of the collection is the very extensive accumulation of plankton, still partly unexamined, made by the ships of the 'Discovery' Committee (collections now incorporated in the National Institute of Oceanography).

It should be borne in mind too that it has only been possible to review the vast literature at first-hand because of the proximity of the magnificent library at the Museum. It is fitting here to pay my tribute to the illustrious workers of the past in this special field. On the foundation of their pioneering work we are now able to build. Among living specialists from whose work I have profited most, I would mention especially Dr. H. B. Bigelow and his co-worker Dr. Mary Sears, and also Dr. E. Leloup. There seem to be all too few of these specialists to-day. This is due, no doubt, to the difficulty of obtaining adequate material. Vast collections of plankton, of which siphonophores generally constitute a large part, in Canada, America, England and elsewhere are still awaiting the attention of specialists, but unfortunately there seems to be no adequate organization for sorting this material. It is only exceptionally that comparatively complete specimens of forms other than diphyids are taken. In the majority of species there are still large gaps in our knowledge of the life-cycle.

The relatively few species of siphonophores fall obviously into one of three sub-orders:

(1) Cystonectae Haeckel, 1888;
(2) Physonectae Haeckel, 1888; and
(3) Calycophorae Leuckart, 1854.

In order to understand the mature form of these complex marine animals, it is very necessary to look at their simple, larval or post-larval growth stages. I have spent some years searching for these larvae, both in the preserved plankton samples taken by the Royal Research Ships 'Discovery', 'Discovery II' and 'William Scoresby', as well as in tow-nettings I have made at Villefranche and off Lanzarote. On several occasions, not always successful, at Villefranche, I have tried to obtain larvae by fertilizing the eggs of various siphonophores.

1

<<<PAGE pdf=7 file=page_007.txt>>>
[PAGE 2]
[RUNNING HEAD] 2	INTRODUCTION

My studies of larval and adult siphonophores, both alive and preserved, justify the recording of my conclusions about the general nature of these animals. First of all I will attempt a definition. The Siphonophora are holoplanktonic, asexual (larval) hydrozoan zooids or polyps that have a single tentacle, probably oral.* By giving rise to buds the zooids become asexual, larval nurse-carriers† (paedophores) of other polyps (larvae) and of the sexual (adult) medusoids as well as of other asexual (adult) medusoids (nectophores) that provide propulsion of the whole, or of separate parts, in all three sub-orders. The Order does not include the disconanth genera, Velella, Porpema and Porpita, in which there are no oral tentacles.

Thus a fully grown siphonophore is essentially an overgrown hydrozoan, oozooid polyp that remains juvenile and asexual, but carries around with it large numbers of other asexual, juvenile polyps (gastrozooids and palpons) as well as sexual adults (medusoid gonophores) and asexual adults (medusoid nectophores), all budded either from the original and often very much elongated oozooid, or from other juveniles. The adults may separate and become independent, usually in association with one or more of the secondary juveniles and with a protective buoyancy device (bract).

I first put forward this theory in 1960, in my 'Discovery' Report on Physalia, as the Paedophore Hypothesis. Furthermore, I think that the Siphonophora are only one of the groups of Hydrozoa, which have arisen during a comparatively recent radiation after a new type of neotenic organism, the actinula, had been evolved from the larvae of some proto-hydroid.

As far as I can ascertain from personal observation and a study of the vast literature, there are only about one hundred and thirty known species of Siphonophora. One can never be sure when and where to find living specimens. There are a few forms taken only once in the Canaries and off Ceylon by Haeckel, of which no preserved specimens are known, and which have never been seen again. In 1955 I followed in Haeckel's footsteps to Lanzarote, but was not lucky enough to find any of those particular, rare forms upon which he reported. The only 'Challenger' Expedition material still in existence consists of specimens of rhodaliids. I had never come across any other rhodaliid specimens until a few years ago the British Museum (Natural History) received from Dundee University one of the most perfect rhodaliid specimens known. Its great importance lay in the fact that it possessed bracts. The specimen had been lying at Dundee unknown to specialists for fifty years. An account of it (Stephalia corona) will be found on page 92.

The best known siphonophores, apart from Physalia, are those that can be found at the surface at places like Messina, Naples and Villefranche, generally at Villefranche after an upwelling of waters from about 200 metres to the surface.‡ The temperature of this upwelled water at say 20 metres in December is about 15·1°C–16°C, and the salinity about 37·80‰. This is one of the only clues we have to the conditions in which these animals live, apart from deductions made from the data given in 'Discovery' Station Lists where closing nets captured siphonophores.

Species found after upwelling in the Mediterranean include Apolemia uvaria, Forskalia edwardsi, Physophora hydrostatica, Agalma elegans, Halistemma rubrum, Nanomia bijuga, Hippopodius hippopus, Rosacea cymbiformis, and Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis. For similar knowledge about the rest of the siphonophores, except those that are commonly found near the surface in all oceans, like Lensia subtilis, Chelophyes appendiculata, Sphaeronectes spp. and Abylopsis tetragona, we are dependent upon closing net-hauls, in which, unfortunately, siphonophores usually occur broken into fragments.

[FOOTNOTE] * Libbie Hyman (1940, p. 370) disagrees.
[FOOTNOTE] † It is interesting to note that Kühn (1913) used the term 'Amme' (nurse) in connection with the polypoid phase in the Hydroida.
[FOOTNOTE] ‡ See Halim, Y. (1959). Observations sur l'hydrologie de la baie et du canyon de Villefranche-sur-mer. Vie et Milieu ix, fasc. 3, 1958.

<<<PAGE pdf=8 file=page_008.txt>>>
[PAGE 3]

HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE
CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER

The phylum to which the Siphonophora belong is known to-day as Cnidaria, a name and group-conception introduced in 1888 by Hatschek, who excluded from it the Sponges and Ctenophora which had been included in Leuckart's (1847) group Coelenterata. Cuvier had already in 1817 separated the cnidarians as part of two out of the five classes of the last four primary groups, Zoophytes or Radiata, in the 1812 sketch of his celebrated arrangement of the animal kingdom, and in 1829 Eschscholtz had reorganized the various coelenterate groups included in Cuvier's third class, Acalephae. Eschscholtz separated the Ctenophora and Siphonophora, in the latter of which he still included the Chonodrophora of Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821, from the Medusae proper (Discophorae). He dealt with about twenty species of siphonophores. For every one of the one hundred and thirty years that have elapsed since Eschscholtz published his 'System', on an average not more than one new (good) species has been described.

[NOTE: a handwritten ink stroke (proofreader-like slash with a hook, no legible letters) runs between 'last' and 'four' in the fifth line of the first paragraph and down into the line below; a small stray ink tick stands in the right margin alongside the same line.]

Some other of the early detailed systematic work on siphonophores was done by Eschscholtz (1825-9), Risso (1826), Milne Edwards (1841), Vogt (1851, 1854), Leuckart (1847, 1851, 1853), Gegenbaur (1853a, b) and Kölliker (1853), all of them working on living Mediterranean forms at Nice, Villefranche and Messina. But, of course, many of the earliest names and figures are taken from the Atlases of Voyages of the older naturalists like Lesson (1826) (Voyage . . . la Coquille, 1822-25), Péron (1807) and Quoy & Gaimard (1824) (Voyage . . . L'Uranie et la Physicienne, 1817-20). We must also thank Sars (1846) and Will (1844) for early contributions. It was the latter's work which alone was available to Huxley during his voyage in H.M.S. Rattlesnake (1859). Further information about early work can be found in the bibliography of Haeckel (1888b). Others of the great siphonophore systematists, each publishing papers in the last hundred years, have been Claus (publications from 1860-89), A. Agassiz (1865-1902), Fewkes (1879-89), Haeckel (1887-8), Chun (1882-1913), Bedot (1882-1909), Schneider (1896-1900), Bigelow (1904-37), Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908), Moser (1917-25), and Leloup (1932-54).

It may be helpful to new students of the siphonophores to have some comments on the larger works of the last hundred years by one who has made a prolonged study of this group. It is interesting to note the gradual increase in the number of species dealt with by systematists. This rose from twenty-six (Huxley, 1859), thirty (Haeckel, 1888), thirty-two (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908), fifty-two (Bigelow, 1911) to fifty-seven (Moser, 1925). This number is about one-third of the species that we know to-day.

HUXLEY

I start with Huxley's 'Oceanic Hydrozoa' (1859), which dealt with twenty-seven siphonophores, three of which he had not seen, and four of which I cannot certainly identify. Like others before him, Huxley was struck by the simple sac-like form of the Hydrozoa, composed as they are of two membranes to which Allman (1853) had given the names ectoderm and endoderm. (O. & R. Hertwig (1882) showed that often a mesenchymal mesoderm separated the two.)

The first part of Huxley's work – sections 1 and 2 – dealt with the general morphology of the class Hydrozoa. The morphology of the siphonophores had, of course, been dealt with previously in some detail by Leuckart (1853, 1854) and by Gegenbaur (1854). Little need be said about Huxley's section

3

<<<PAGE pdf=9 file=page_009.txt>>>
[PAGE 4]
[RUNNING HEAD] 4	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

1 except his sub-section 7 (p. 16) on reproductive organs. He stated that throughout the Hydrozoa these consisted of spermaria and ovaria, portions of the tissue of the wall of the hydrosoma (defined on p. 2 as the 'entire double walled body of the Hydrozoan . . . (e.g.) an Agalma three feet long') and 'more particularly of the ectoderm metamorphosed into spermatozoa or ova'. They are found, he said, in Hydra, Lucernaria, in many medusae, in Hydractinia, Coryne pusilla and Plumulariae in their simplest form, as pouches or sacs (called gonophores by Allman (1859) ) containing a diverticulum of the somatic cavity. 'The reproductive organs of both sexes in Cordylophora, the female organs of Stephanomia, Agalma, Athorybia, Forskalia, Apolemia and the male (sic) organs of Physalia exhibit,' he said, 'an interesting series of transitions from the simplest to the most complex condition of the genital apparatus in the Hydrozoa. For we find that in all these cases the reproductive organ is no longer simple, but that its investment has acquired more or less the structure of a nectocalyx, from whose walls those of the actual genital sac, the manubrium of Allman,* tend to become independent.'

Huxley said that he had identified in each order of Hydrozoa both sperms and eggs. The oocytes(?) measured from 0·004 inches to 0·005 inches in diameter. Fertilization in all those examined appeared to follow the description of Gegenbaur (1854) for Calycophorae and 'Physophoridae'. Huxley rightly appeared to doubt Gegenbaur's deduction that the larval nectophore in Calycophorae persisted as the distal (? posterior) one of the adult.†

Of ontogeny in 'Physophoridae' (Physonectae and Cystonectae) he said little was known except for some post-larvae of Physophora, Forskalia and Agalma described by Gegenbaur, and the larva of Physalia described by himself. He then proceeded to draw attention to the laws which in general govern the development of appendages upon the coenosarc. He compared the budding of new polypites, at or near the distal end in Hydroida with the budding on the proximal side of the old ones of new polypites, nectocalyces (nectophores) and reproductive organs and branches of tentacles of 'Physophoridae'; and of the same buds, excepting nectocalyces, in Calycophoridae, for instance in the Hippopodiidae.‡

Huxley outlined the simple development of gastrozooids and tentacles, palpons, nectocalyces (nectophores) and gonophores from buds. He repeated his idea, which seems now to be a mistaken one, that the course of evolution of gonophores has been towards the medusa stage instead of a regression from it. He cited only the Calycophorae and (footnote p. 27) Agalma elegans as the siphonophores which retain ('perfect') a free medusiform gonophore.

In section 2 Huxley summarized the seven ways in which these organs are grouped together in order to define seven groups of Hydrozoa, viz.: (1) Hydra, (2) Corynid hydroids, (3) Sertularian hydroids, (4) Calycophoran siphonophores, (5) Physophoran siphonophores, (6) Lucernariadae and (7) Craspedote medusae. As a scheme of classification to-day it is, of course, not good, particularly as it included Scyphozoa (Lucerneriadae) in the Hydrozoa.

Section 3 dealt with reproduction, and was written at the same time as Allman was preparing for publication two papers on the reproductive organs of the hydroids. Huxley adopted Allman's terminology as far as possible, though he made certain modifications in it. Twelve years later, Allman (1871)

[FOOTNOTE] * Allman evidently used the term gonophore originally for the gonadial tissue (in the form of a sac, for example, on the radial canal or stomach of a medusa). To-day, however, the term gonophore has come to denote a reduced or vestigial medusa. Even a sporosac is a reduced medusa, and it is not homologous with a gonadial pouch on the radial canal of a medusa as Huxley supposed. Allman in his Ray Society Monograph on the Hydroida (1871, p. 21, fig. 1) had introduced his generalized conception of a hydroid as if it were an adult, with a 'generative sac' emitted as an external bud from its side. By implication Allman seemed to suggest that a sac-like gonad evolved into a medusa. In fact the reverse is more likely to be true (see Libbie Hyman, 1940, p. 367). The regressive stages have been dealt with at length by Kühn (1913).
[FOOTNOTE] † We know now that in many it is caducous. I have evidence however, that it persists as the anterior nectophore in Abylidae.
[FOOTNOTE] ‡ The buds of new nectophores in Hippopodius arise from the foot stalks of the older ones, and in consequence they arise proximally and not distally as Huxley maintained. In my view those of physonects do the same thing, i.e. they bud from the foot stalks of predecessors.

<<<PAGE pdf=10 file=page_010.txt>>>
[PAGE 5]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	5

published his large monograph of the gymnoblastic hydroids, in which he made much use of Huxley's terminology. Thus these two pioneers were working on Hydrozoa at about the same time and benefiting from one another's work. Allman's (1871) monograph is, of course, of equal value in studying the early history of any cnidarian, including that of the Siphonophora.

Huxley's fourth section dealt briefly with interesting historical facts: Cuvier's generic name Diphyes, and how he thought the two nectophores were two temporarily united animals, possibly in copulation; the setting-up by Eschscholtz (1829) of the group name Siphonophorae and three family names, Diphyidae, Physophoriadae and Velellidae; and the proposal by Leuckart to substitute the name Calycophoridae for Diphyidae (invalid since there is no generic name Calycophora). Huxley realized, as did Sars, Vogt, and Leuckart, that special generic and specific names for eudoxid phases (which he called diphyozooids) were provisional, and would be suppressed in the course of further investigation. Then followed a summary of the classification and descriptions of the eighteen species of calycophoran siphonophores.

The fifth section dealt with the history of physonect and cystonect literature. As Huxley pointed out the systematic arrangement of these groups is beset with difficulties, which are partly due to the nature of the animals themselves, but still more to the confusion introduced by the mistakes of systematists. He mentioned the three distinct Mediterranean species dealt with by Forskål (1775) and four by Péron and Lesueur (1807), including Stephanomia uvaria Lesueur (?) 1811. He then recalled how Eschscholtz (1829) separated the last species and made a new genus, Apolemia, for it; united Physophora rosacea Forskål and Rhizophysa heliantha Q. & G. as Athorybia rosacea; changed the generic name of Forskål's Rhizophysa filiformis to Epibulia (thinking it must have had nectophores) and separated it from Péron's Rhizophysa planestoma, with which it is probably identical; and restricted the genus Physophora.

Huxley then recalled how Lamarck (1835-45) reunited Péron's R. planestoma and Forskål's P. filiformis as Rhizophysa filiformis, but in error included Forskål's P. rosacea (= Athorybia); set up the new physophorid genus Agalma; and wrongly included Quoy & Gaimard's Hippopodius, Discolabe (= Physophora) and Physalia in the family Physophoridae. Huxley eulogized Eschscholtz and said that his work was far ahead of Quoy & Gaimard, Lesson and de Blainville, the first two of whom he said introduced the most lamentable confusion.

Huxley next mentioned that the work of Milne Edwards (1841) and Sars (1846) inaugurated a new epoch in the study of siphonophores. Huxley succeeded in disentangling the 'Agalmopsis' confusion of Sars and saw that Sars was dealing with two separate forms. This led him to restrict the name Agalma to forms whose tricornuate tentilla had a median sac and two lateral filaments, and to establish the new generic name of Halistemma for forms with unicornuate tentilla.

He then gave a systematic arrangement of the 'Physophoridae', i.e. Physonectae, Cystonectae and Disconantha, which appeared to him to be in accordance 'with our present knowledge'. The siphonophores were placed in six families, 'Apolemiadae, Stephanomiadae, Physophoriadae, Athorybiadae, Rhizophysiadae and Physaliadae'. Of the sixteen species listed under these families he then dealt systematically with eight physonects and two cystonects, as well as with the disconanths, Velella and Porpita. Subsequent changes in nomenclature result in the following list of siphonophores discussed and figured by Huxley:

[TABLE]
TABLE I
Modern names	Huxley's names
A. Calycophorae
Diphyes dispar (Cham. & Eysen.)	D. dispar, Eudoxia lessonii (Esch.)
D. bojani (Esch.)	Eudoxia bojani (Esch.)
D. chamissonis (Huxley)	D. chamissonis sp.n.
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: in the last table row the two parenthesis glyphs around 'Huxley' are heavily over-inked blots, apparently a hand emendation; their exact printed form is uncertain.]

<<<PAGE pdf=11 file=page_011.txt>>>
[PAGE 6]
[RUNNING HEAD] 6	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[TABLE]
TABLE I continued
Modern names	Huxley's names
A. Calycophorae
Chelophyes appendiculata (Esch.)	Diphyes appendiculata
Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley)	Diphyes mitra; Eudoxoides sagittata
Muggiaea kochi (Will)	Diphyes kochii
Abylopsis tetragona (Otto)	Abyla pentagona
A. eschscholtzi (Huxley)	Aglaismoides eschscholtzii. A. elongata
Bassia bassensis (Huxley)	Abyla bassensis, Sphenoides australis
Enneagonum hyalinum (Q. & G.)	Abyla vogtii, Cuboides vitreus, Enneagonoides quoyi
Abyla sp.	Abyla trigona
Abyla sp.	Amphiroa alata Lesueur
Abyla ? sp.	Amphiroa angulata sp.n.
Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley)	Abyla leuckartii
Sphaeronectes gracilis (Claus)	Sphaeronectes köllikeri gen. n., sp.n.
Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje)	Praya diphyes?
Hippopodius hippopus* (Forskål)	Hippopodius gleba*
Vogtia pentacantha* (Kölliker)	Vogtia pentacantha*
Sulculeolaria sp.	Galeolaria filiformis†

B. Physonectae
Apolemia uvaria (Lesueur)	Stephanomia amphitridis†
Halistemma rubrum (Huxley)	Halistemma rubrum
Forskalia edwardsi* (Kölliker)	Forskalia edwardsii*
Agalma okeni (Esch.)	Agalma breve sp.n.
Physophora hydrostatica (Forskål)	Physophora (sp. ?)
Athorybia rosacea (Forskål)	Athorybia rosacea

C. Cystonectae
Rhizophysa eysenhardti Gegenbaur	Rhizophysa filiformis
Physalia physalis (L.)	Physalia utriculus (Esch).
[/TABLE]

[FOOTNOTE] † I have not identified Huxley's Galeolaria filiformis (posterior nectophore of Sulculeolaria sp.), nor his Stephanomia amphitridis (the siphosome only of a physonect). * Species not seen by Huxley.

This famous Ray Society monograph closes with Huxley's remarks on doubtful genera and species; a note on the terminology of hydrozoan organs; a bibliography; and twelve plates and their descriptions.

HAECKEL

It is a difficult task even for a specialist to sort out Haeckel's muddled classification, contained in his report (1888b) on the Siphonophora of the 'Challenger' Expedition, but this must be done before any discussion of his views on the morphology of the group can be appreciated. The difficulty is further enhanced by the fact that, as Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) have already pointed out, 'of the Challenger siphonophores the British Museum contains no remnants other than a certain number of specimens of Rhodalia miranda Hkl. Of all the other species described in Haeckel's bulky volume – also of his own private collection – no traces are left'. Bigelow (1911b) went so far as to say (p. 176) 'Haeckel's monograph . . . with many new species beautifully figured but none of them critically studied from the systematic standpoint, cannot be used as a manual of the group'.

Haeckel divided the Siphonophora into four orders: Calyconectae, Physonectae, Cystonectae and Auronectae. The last of these was shown by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) and by Bigelow (1911b) to be a family of Physonectae. The following analysis of his classification of the Calycophorae may serve to illustrate the difficulties of working with Haeckel's system:

<<<PAGE pdf=12 file=page_012.txt>>>
[PAGE 7]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	7

[TABLE]
TABLE II
Haeckel's classification	Modern equivalent
Class Siphonophora	Order Siphonophora
	Order Calyconectae	Sub-order Calycophorae
		Sub-order Monogastricae	Eudoxid phase of species of
	Families: Diphyidae pro parte
	Abylidae p.p.
	Prayidae p.p.
	Sphaeronectidae p.p.

		1st Family Eudoxidae
			1st Sub-family Diplophysidae	Eudoxid phase of species of
	Families: Diphyidae p.p.
	Prayidae p.p.
	Sphaeronectidae p.p.

			2nd Sub-family Aglaismidae	Eudoxid phase of species of
	Family: Abylidae p.p.

		2nd Family Ersaeidae	Eudoxid phase of species of
	Family: Diphyidae p.p.

	Sub-order Polygastricae
		3rd Family Monophyidae	Polygastric phase of species of
	Families: Diphyidae p.p.
	Abylidae p.p.
	Prayidae p.p.
	Sphaeronectidae p.p.

		4th Family Diphyidae	Polygastric phase of species of
	Families: Diphyidae p.p.
	Abylidae p.p.
	Prayidae p.p.

		5th Family Desmophyidae	Polygastric phase of species of
	Family: Prayidae p.p.

		6th Family Polyphyidae	Family: Hippopodiidae
[/TABLE]

Let us first consider the Calycophorae = Calyconectae Haeckel (see Table II). Following Lesson (1843), whom he said could not distinguish the natural groups critically, Haeckel made two sub-orders, the Monogastricae, for some forms which we now call the eudoxids or monogastric phases, and the Polygastricae, for those we now call the polygastric phases of the same animals, although as long ago as 1853 two men, Gegenbaur and Leuckart, independently had discovered the connection between the two phases, and although Haeckel himself had listed them on page 102 of his report.

If we now pass to the next systematic part of Haeckel's classification we find less difficulty in his treatment of the Physonectae, although he had the fixed idea that the pneumatophore represented the umbrella of a medusa – his Medusome Theory – and the reiteration of this hypothesis makes the descriptions difficult to follow unless it is disregarded.

He erected a special order, Auronectae, for forms that are now regarded as members of the physonect family Rhodaliidae, and of the eight families of his Physonectae the first two must be regarded with great caution: Circalia stephanomia (Circaliidae) has not been seen again – it might conceivably be a young Rhodaliid – and Athoria larvalis (Athoriidae) appears to be of very doubtful authenticity because of the sub-umbrella cavities said to be present at the tips of the bracts. Haeckel made the same claim for the bracts of the 'Athorula' larva of Agalma elegans; this has been dealt with by Garstang (1946), the so-called subumbrella or nectosac being merely a pocket of nematocysts, as anyone can see who examines this common larva. Athoria larvalis has not been seen again, and

<<<PAGE pdf=13 file=page_013.txt>>>
[PAGE 8]
[RUNNING HEAD] 8	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Haeckel's Athoria bractealis is a nomen nudum. His third, fourth and fifth families, Apolemiidae Huxley, Agalmidae Brandt and Forskaliidae Haeckel still stand. Nectalia loligo (Nectaliidae) is, I feel sure, a juvenile form and not of generic or family significance. His family Discolabidae is now known as Physophoridae; in spite of Garstang's (1946) comments on Discolabe, I believe that there is only one physophorid, namely Physophora hydrostatica. Haeckel's last physonect family, Anthophysidae, is known as Athorybiidae.

Haeckel and others have stated that Cystonectae possess no nectophores. I have shown (1960) that nectophores are budded on the gonodendra of Physalia physalis and Rhizophysa species, though none are budded directly from the proximal part of the cystonect oozooid as in most Physonectae. Haeckel's English text says that the only 'organ of swimming' is the large apical pneumatophore. I think that the translator should have said 'organ of floatation'.

In Haeckel's treatment of the Cystonectae, he recorded how the species included in this group had not been separated from the Physonectae until the year 1835 when Brandt had then set up two sub-families: 1. Rhizophysidae for two species of Rhizophysa, one of which Brandt called Epibulia, and 2. Physaliidae (which we now consider to contain a single species Physalia physalis). Haeckel dealt with the three species of these two genera and a third, Pterophysa conifera Studer, as if there were thirty of them, grouped into fourteen genera. In addition to Brandt's two families, Haeckel erected three more, Cystalidae, Epibulidae,* and Salaciidae, all of which should be treated with caution. Cystalia larvalis might be a juvenile form of Epibulia ritteriana, in spite of the fact that its pneumatophore does not possess hypocystic villi. Haeckel's Salaciidae for Salacia polygastrica (Salacia was pre-occupied and Salacella was substituted by Delage & Hérouard in 1901) should be dropped. I have mentioned (1954) the difficulty of accepting S. polygastrica. Of Haeckel's rhizophysid genera, Aurophysa and Linophysa are bathyphysids; Cannophysa, Nectophysa and Pneumophysa are synonyms of Rhizophysa. His three sub-families of Rhizophysidae, Cannophysidae and Linophysidae are therefore valueless.

Medusome Theory

The section (p. 21) headed 'Fundamental Form (Promorph)' begins with a discussion of the theories as to the organization of siphonophores. The two older interpretations which Haeckel thought to contain a mixture of truth and error are, of course, as Hadzi (1918), Garstang (1946), Leloup (1954) and other reviewers have mentioned, (1) the poly-person theory, held by most of the workers from 1848 to 1882, which regarded siphonophores as colonies of polyps, and (2) the poly-organ theory which, briefly, regarded the siphonophore organization as homologous with that of a budding medusa like Sarsia prolifera. After this discussion Haeckel then proceeded to expound his Medusome Theory. This theory (p. 3) was presumably based, without acknowledgement, on original views published twenty-three years earlier by Alexander Agassiz on dislocation of medusa parts (in A. Agassiz, 1865, p. 211). It is based on the false premise that all the parts of a physonect – float, nectophores, bracts, palpons, gastrozooids as well as gonophores (but not palpacles nor tentacles) – which were acknowledged as organs, are dissociated parts of a medusa or secondarily budded medusae. For instance, Haeckel added together the bract of a eudoxid (which probably represents a palpon) and a gastrozooid (both of them probably secondarily budded larvae) to form the umbrella and manubrium of a medusa or medusome. He thought that in siphonophores the constituent parts of an original medusa could exist as dissociated parts. He seems to mean three different things by 'medusomes': 1. medusoid gonophores; 2. sterile medusomes, eudoxids consisting of bract and gastrozooid but without gonophores; 3. any appendages except tentacles – all derived from medusae, sometimes by repetition or dislocation of parts.

[FOOTNOTE] * For a discussion of the 'Epibulidae', see page 44.

<<<PAGE pdf=14 file=page_014.txt>>>
[PAGE 9]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	9

I have never seen a detailed criticism of the thirteen points of Haeckel's theory. Points 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 13 are grossly erroneous in statement of facts. Points 10, 11 and 12 are observational or terminological, and hardly find room in theory. Points 3 and 5 do not refer to Siphonophora sensu stricto. All thirteen points refer to larvae as medusae ('medusomes') and point 7 summarizes the theory in stating that 'all the parts which arise by budding from the primary larva of the Siphonophorae ("always a simple medusa", see point 1) are either medusiform persons or special organs of the same'.

It is really astonishing that Haeckel, who made a great study of medusae, should have concluded that the larva of Physophora hydrostatica was a medusa. It is not organized like one and the resemblance is very superficial. It is a particularly active little larva and was beautifully depicted by Vogt (1854); it occurs abundantly at Villefranche, where I have examined numerous living specimens (see text-fig. 47, p. 85) in various growth stages. I am convinced as the result of my own observations – Garstang (1946) had already drawn attention to Haeckel's mistaken deductions – that what Haeckel (1869) took for a split medusan umbrella is really the bract-homologue of a tentacle of an actinuloid larva.

Siphonula larva of the Siphonanthae (= Physonectae)

Haeckel erroneously called the siphonula larva 'medusiform' although he rightly says that it is bilaterally symmetrical. He said that 'the original circle of tentacles on the umbrella-margin had disappeared; in all cases only a single capturing filament (Fangfade) persists, the primary unilateral larval tentacle, which in consequence of the ventral umbrella-cleft has been shifted centripetally to the base of the gastral tube. The primary umbrella itself (Protocodon) has, in consequence of this unilateral development, become bilateral; it develops in the Calyconectae (or Calycophoridae) into the primary swimming-bell, in the other three orders (Physonectae, Cystonectae and Auronectae) into the pneumatophore' (pp. 5–6).

As to the 'ventral umbrella-cleft', Haeckel mistook the larval bract of Physophora – homologous with an actinuloid tentacle – for the cleft umbrella of a medusa. What he called the 'primary umbrella (Protocodon)' is really the pneumatocyst, which in Physophora he wrongly thought was part of the bract – an error of observation.

The only significant and true facts that he gave about the siphonula larva are: (1) the different siphonulas are very similar; (2) the primary gastrozooid develops into the stem (there are no monogastric physonects) from which all the other persons of the colony proceed by lateral budding; (3) the 'whole structure . . . suggests the closest relationship with the Anthomedusae, and especially with the family Codonidae'; some of his reasons for this opinion are perhaps unsound, for instance that this relationship is corroborated by the marked tendency of many Anthomedusae to form medusa by direct budding from the gastral tube.

Corm and Cormidia

Under this heading Haeckel made the rather misleading suggestion that siphonophores are pre-eminently characterized by the development of a 'corm' or colony composed of several 'individuals proper'. Many people have erroneously thought a siphonophore arose from the union of separate individuals. In fact Haeckel himself talked of a Cormus compositus 'formed from the union of several individual groups of persons'.

'Ordinate Cormidia, Dissolved Cormidia'

Haeckel defined ordinate cormidia as 'metameres of the jointed stem or cormaxis', and by dissolved cormidia he meant those individual gonophores, for instance in Agalma elegans which appear to bud separately from the stem, instead of forming part of a complex gonodendron, as for example in

2

<<<PAGE pdf=15 file=page_015.txt>>>
[PAGE 10]
[RUNNING HEAD] 10	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Physalia. I believe that this sort of phenomenon is due to a secondary masking of a more primitive arrangement, as Haeckel seemed to suggest.

Dislocation and Multiplication of Organs

This section starts with the proposition 'If our medusome theory is correct'. It is not! We need not follow his deduction from this false premise that nectophores, bracts and groups of palpons are replacement organs. However, he made the sound statement that he viewed each separate gonophore as a medusoid person which has lost mouth-opening and tentacles.

Haeckel then returned to the question of cormidia, 'monogastric and polygastric'. Here he introduced, as he loved to do, some rather useless terms not used since: Eudoxome, Ersaeome, Rhodalome, Athorome and Crystallome, all for cormidia which are either set free or not. One category, Ersaeome, is interesting since this type (which we now call an eudoxid) bears a 'special swimming-bell', i.e. an asexual medusoid.

Stem or Trunk

Here Haeckel compared a siphonophore with a hydroid, starting with the false premise that the siphonophore 'body' is a medusoid person. He rightly said that it was not logical to describe the stem of the Siphonophora as 'unbranched', but that forking or dichotomous ramification is absent.

Nectosome and Siphosome

This section contains the shocking suggestion that the nectosome in general represents the umbrella of a simple medusoid person and that the siphosome is the manubrium.*

Nectosomes of the Five Orders

Here the translator has not done Haeckel justice by writing of the pneumatophore as the 'swimming-bladder' instead of the 'float-bladder'. Although Haeckel correctly stated that a nectophore is the umbrella of a hydromedusa, he is quite wrong in stating that the pneumatophore is an invaginated and much modified umbrella. Garstang (1946) pointed out this error. Haeckel described briefly the arrangement of nectophores and pneumatophore in his five sub-orders. In his last sub-order, Auronectae, which we now regard as a family (Rhodaliidae) of the Physonectae, he gave an erroneous interpretation of the 'aurophore'. Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) gave the correct one (see p. 91).

Nectophores or Swimming-bells

Haeckel gave a simple description of structure, followed by a bad interpretation in terms of his 'Medusome Theory'.

Pneumatophore or Swimming-bladder

Haeckel gave a simple description of the morphology, nomenclature and origin and went on to say that it is on the presence in some physonects of septa uniting the endoderm of the pneumatocodon and the pneumatosaccus that Metschnikoff (1874) based his opinion that the entire air-chamber is to be regarded as an invaginated swimming-bell. Haeckel himself stated that the radial pockets between the septa represent the radial canals of a simple medusoid umbrella; this view is quite erroneous. He added that Leuckart (1875),† Claus (1878) and Chun (1887) regarded the 'air-chamber' (pneumatophore) as an independent medusoid person supposed to originate as a bud from the primary larva, which it certainly does not do. The antithesis between these two opinions culminates in the

[FOOTNOTE] * I traced the origin of nectosome and siphosome and discussed their significance in 1956 in a description of the ontogeny of Agalma elegans to which the reader is referred.
[FOOTNOTE] † I cannot trace this reference.

<<<PAGE pdf=16 file=page_016.txt>>>
[PAGE 11]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	11

interpretation of the air-sac, he said. According to the first theory, the air-sac (pneumatosaccus) is the exumbrella of a medusoid disc, according to the second it is the subumbrella. The latter opinion, Haeckel rightly thought is entirely erroneous, the former in a certain sense admissible. In the siphonula larva of the physonects the air-sac lies excentrically beside the apex. The whole pneumatophore is not, he said correctly, a secondary medusoid person, but the modified disc of the primary medusoid larva. But, of course, the larva is not medusoid.

Aurophore or Air-bell

In this short section Haeckel stated correctly that the air-bell is a voluminous gas-gland, but he was mistaken in thinking that it had developed out of a medusiform swimming-bell.

Siphosome or Nutritive Body

Haeckel made some erroneous statements in this section. He claimed a great distinction between what he called monogastric siphonophores which he said have no gastrozooids other than the protozooid – I do not know of any such forms – and the rest of the siphonophores, polygastric. He was quite mistaken in thinking that the mouth of the protozooid rarely persists, and that the protozooid itself does not survive. In my experience it is only missing from damaged specimens. He then interpreted stem – bracts, gonophores, gastrozooids, palpons and 'gonostyles' – in terms of (1) the poly-organ, (2) the poly-person and (3) his Medusome Theory. All three interpretations are in my opinion wrong.

Siphons or Suctorial Tubes

Haeckel also called these gastrozooids and this is what we call them to-day. His description is simple, but of the two alternative interpretations the first – that a gastrozooid is homologous with an entire polyp – is sound; the second – that it is homologous with the manubrium of a medusa – is false.

Monosiphoniae or Monogastric Siphonophores

Haeckel here included the eudoxid phases of Calyconectae, but these are really separated groups of secondary buds of polygastric forms. He said that monogastric forms (unspecified) might be regarded as 'sexually mature larvae' (neotenic) but, in true Haeckelian form, that 'in more accordance, however, with the phylogeny is the reverse interpretation, that those larvae of the Polysiphoniae repeat according to the fundamental biogenetic law, the structure of their Monosiphoniae ancestors'.

Polysiphoniae or Polygastric Siphonophores

We read more about Haeckel's interpretation of the budding of the secondary gastrozooids in this section. His statement that they arise from the ventral middle line of the primary siphon is sound, but he soon introduced his Medusome Theory to confuse what is, otherwise, a simple description of the formation of cormidia and eudoxids. He pointed out that the secondary stem-bracts are subordinate organs, though he had erroneously homologized the primary ones with the umbrella of medusae.

Palpons or Tasters

Haeckel made a distinction between palpons, which he said, wrongly in my experience, are mouthless, and cystons which he deals with in a short section, 'Cystons or Anal Vesicles', which follows. Palpons he claimed, are distinguished by (1) the absence of a distal opening, (2) by the absence of glandular villi and hepatic stripes in the stomach region. He thought their function is mainly if not exclusively, sensory. Here he repeated an error of observation in his description of the palpons of Athorybia: he reported the presence of a lens in a sickle-shaped pigment spot on the upper surface

<<<PAGE pdf=17 file=page_017.txt>>>
[PAGE 12]
[RUNNING HEAD] 12	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

of the apex and which he calls an ocellus. I have failed to see this structure in the only species of Athorybia, but I did observe at Villefranche in a living specimen of A. rosacea some metacercariae that Haeckel may have mistaken for lenses. Then follows a speculation on the otocyst function of the distal part of the palpon of 'some Agalmidae', in which a crystalline otolith is kept in rotary movement by a ciliated epithelium. This rotary movement I have often seen in palpons of Forskalia edwardsi, but I do not believe that any siphonophore produces otoliths or otocysts.

Cystons or Anal Vescicles

I doubt if special palpons can be distinguished for this category with which Haeckel dealt next. I have observed the tips of palpons in Nanomia bijuga flatten out and with a peristalsic-like movement eject granules from the opened distal end. I have reported (1960) on palpons of Physalia with opened tips. Normally the tips are closed and there is no sign of a potential opening.

Tentacles or Capturing Filaments. Palpacles or Tasting Filaments

It is not until we read these two sections that we are told of the usual arrangement of lateral branches or tentilla on the tentacles of the gastrozooids, and the simple palpacles of the palpons. Haeckel did not suggest what I believe to be the truth either that gastrozooids are more highly evolved palpons or vice versa that palpons are reduced gastrozooids. In Apolemia tentacles and palpacles are alike.

Bracts or Covering Pieces

These are interpreted in terms of the Medusome Theory as (1) displaced, (2) reserve, (3) partial umbrellas of medusoids. Haeckel talked of the direct transition of nectophores into bracts to be observed in the 'Athoriidae' and Anthophysidae. The whole interpretation is erroneous as pointed out by Garstang (1946). The section closes with a mention of the apophyses of the bracteal canals of Calycophorae. The homologizing of the four apophyses in the various bracts of different genera is a matter of considerable interest, but is not mentioned by Haeckel.

Gonostyles or Reproductive Stalks

Here Haeckel discussed a subject about which there are still differences of opinion. He added in brackets (Blastostyles, Gonoblastidia, Gonodendra, Klinozooids). He began by saying that the 'gonophores or "medusiform reproductive persons" of the Siphonophorae sometimes develop directly . . . as buds on the gastral wall of the primary siphon or stem'. 'Much more frequently' he added, 'the buds arise from the stomach-wall of secondary polypoid persons . . . better designated sexual palpons. . . . These sacs frequently branch . . . so that the numerous gonophores . . . form large clustered masses (. . . gonodendra).' He used the term Strophogenesis for this relation of medusoid buds to the polypo-persons in terms of the poly-person theory, and called each gonostyle a medusa-manubrium in terms of the poly-organ theory.

Gonophores or Reproductive Persons (Sexual-Medusoids, Gonozooids)

Haeckel did admit in this penultimate section of his general introduction that 'among all parts of the siphonophoral organism, the gonophores are always those members which most distinctly preserve the original character of the medusoid person'. Haeckel rightly compared the siphonophore medusoids with codonid medusae, and points out that reduction to sporosacs often takes place. He said most siphonophores are monoecious but that others are dioecious. Among the monoecious he distinguished monoclinous and diclinous forms in respect of individual cormidia. His statement that some gonodendra are distylic, the basal part of the single branched gonostyle bearing female and the distal part male gonophores, needs careful checking. He added that gonophores which form both spermatozoa and ova are not known.

<<<PAGE pdf=18 file=page_018.txt>>>
[PAGE 13]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	13

Fundamental Form (Promorph)

This final section does not appear in his paper in Zeitschrift für Naturwissenschaft, Jena 22 (1888a). He first mentioned that radial structure is found in the gonophores, and that bilateral structure occurs in all siphonophores proper. This bilateral arrangement he claimed 'is partly inherited from the bilateral Medusae, which we regard as the ancestors of the Siphonanthae (Protomeda) . . . but partly the bilateral type is produced by adaptation . . .'. 'To get a clear conception of these difficult promorphological relations, we must distinguish' he said, 'firstly the fundamental forms of the entire cormus and of the single persons . . . and secondly the different promorphological development in the two independent legions of the Class, the Disconanthae and the Siphonanthae'. In his sub-section 'Promorph of the Corms in the Siphonanthae', he gave a simple description of a siphonanth (physonect) larva – obviously that of Physophora hydrostatica, but mistakenly in terms of his Medusome Theory referred to its 'manubrium' (protozooid) and its 'primary umbrella' (bract) with 'its deep ventral cleft'. He then defined its different axes. In all this discussion of 'difficult promorphological relations' Haeckel remarked rather amusingly, if I may say so without irreverence, that the 'bilateral promorph of the Siphonanthae (has been) very unnaturally described by many authors'. (!) In his short discussion on orientation he erroneously stated that the larval nectophore of a calyconect occupies the apical pole. As to the distinction between right and left he claimed that it is clear when the ventral side is defined. To me it appears that it is also necessary to define anterior and posterior, which Haeckel failed to do. No wonder then he complained that the right and left halves are 'often confounded by different authors and described in striking contradiction'. Haeckel did, however, call the upper, pneumatophore pole of a physonect apical and the opposite one basal. I have always been taught to regard the oral end as anterior. His last words contain – alas – the erroneous statement that the radial pouches of a physonect-float are comparable to the radial canals of a medusa.

Before starting on his Description of the Families, Genera and Species Haeckel gave a 'Definition of the Class' in which, of course, he included the Disconanthae. I have suggested a new definition on page 2.

LENS & VAN RIEMSDIJK

This report by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) on the Siphonophora of the 'Siboga' Expedition with its rather crude illustrations dealt with thirty-two good species, mostly under synonyms of current names; ten of them were new, two indeterminate. It may, therefore, be useful to give in parallel columns the authors' and the current names.

[TABLE]
TABLE III
Modern names	Lens & van Riemsdijk's names
1. Chelophyes contorta (L. & v. R.)	Diphyes contorta sp.n.
2. Diphyes dispar (Cham. & Eysen.)	Diphyes dispar Cham. et Eys.
	D. Nierstraszi 'sp.n.'
	Diphyopsis campanulifera Q. & G.
	Ersaea lessoni Huxley
	Diphyopsis anomala 'sp.n.'
3. Diphyes bojani (Esch.)	Diphyes indica 'sp.n.'
	Diphyes (Diphyopsis) Malayana 'sp.n.'
	Diphyes (Diphyopsis) Gegenbauri 'sp.n.'
	Doromasia pictoides 'sp.n.'
	Ersaea bojani Esch.
4. Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley)	Diphyopsis diphyoides 'sp.n.'
	Eudoxia campanula Hkl.
5. Lensia subtiloides (L. & v. R.)	Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides sp.n.
6. Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis (Blain.)	Galeolaria quadrivalvis Les.
7. Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars)	Galeolaria biloba M. Sars
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: in the right-hand column of the table, printed braces group the five names against entry 2, the five names against entry 3, and the two names against entry 4.]

<<<PAGE pdf=19 file=page_019.txt>>>
[PAGE 14]
[RUNNING HEAD] 14	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[TABLE]
TABLE III continued
Modern names	Lens & van Riemsdijk's names
8. Sulculeolaria monoica (Chun)	Galeolaria monoica Chun
9. Sulculeolaria chuni (L. & v. R.)	Galeolaria Chuni sp.n.
10. Enneagonum hyalinum (Q. & G.)	Halopyramis adamantina Chun
	Cuboides adamantina Chun
11. Abylopsis tetragona (Otto)	Abyla pentagona Q. & G.
	Aglaisma cuboides Lkt.
12. Abylopsis eschscholtzii (Huxley)	Abylopsis quincunx Chun
13. Bassia bassensis (Huxley)	Abyla bassensis Huxley
	Sphenoides australis Huxley
14. ? Abyla trigona (Q. & G.)	Abyla trigona Q. & G.
	Amphiroa alata Les.
15. Abyla haeckeli (L. & v. R.)	Abyla Haeckeli sp.n.
16. Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley)	Abyla leuckarti
	Ceratocymba asymmetrica 'sp.n.'
17. Ceratocymba sagittata (Q. & G.)	Diphyabyla Hubrechti 'gen.n.' and 'sp.n.'
18. Clausophyes galeata L. & v. R.	Clausophyes galeata gen. et sp.n.
19. Chuniphyes multidentata L. & v. R. V.	Chuniphyes multidentata gen. et. sp.n.
20. ? Rosacea plicata (?Q. & G.) (Bigelow)	? Lilyopsis diphyes Vogt.
21. [sp.indet.]	[? Praya maxima Ggbr.]
22. Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål)	Hippopodius luteus Q. & G.
23. [Forskalia sp.indet.]	[Forskalia contorta M. Edw.]
24. Forskalia edwardsi (Köll.)	Forskalia edwardsi Köll.
25. Erenna richardi (Bedot)	Erenna Bedoti 'sp.n.'
26. Halistemma cupulifera L. & v. R.	Halistemma cupulifera sp.n.
27. Physophora hydrostatica (Forskål)	Physophora hydrostatica Forskål
28. Athorybia rosacea (Forskål)	Anthophysa formosa Fewk.
29. Archangelopsis typica L. & v. R.	Archangelopsis typica gen. et. sp.n.
30. Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål)	Rhizophysa filiformis Forskål
31. Rhizophysa eysenhardti (Ggbr.)	Rhizophysa Eysenhardti Ggbr.
32. Pterophysa grandis (Fewk.)	Pterophysa grandis Fewk.
33. Pterophysa studeri L. & v. R.	Pterophysa (Bathyphysa) Studeri sp.n.
34. Bathyphysa sibogae L. & v. R.	Bathyphysa Sibogae sp.n.
35. Physalia physalis L.	Physalia utriculus Lamartinière
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: in the right-hand column printed braces group the paired names against entries 10, 11, 13, 14 and 16.]
[HANDWRITTEN] [illegible] faint pencil marks in the left margin beside table entries 18-19 and beside entry 26 (a short pencil stroke); no legible letters.

The authors suppressed Haeckel's 'order' Auronectae, having demonstrated that the aurophore was only an evaginated part of the pneumatophore. They took the trouble to examine any specimens of former expeditions that had been preserved, as well as live specimens at Naples while undertaking the work, but the report is mostly of a descriptive nature and gives the impression that it was the authors' only experience of the animals. Nevertheless we owe descriptions of ten new species to them and some important observations on Erenna, which have enabled me to add more to what was known of these animals. They took great pains to seriate developmental stages of Agalma okeni, to which they referred as Crystallomia sp., and they published useful information on bathyphysids.

BIGELOW

Of Bigelow's (1911b) report on the Siphonophores of the 'Albatross'; the first thing to be said of course is that it is the most useful single systematic report on the siphonophores that has ever been written; and that the figures are superb. It deals with fifty-two species, about one-third of those now known. It is a key-work for checking synonymies and references to all works up to that date, and contains reviews of past work under each sub-order and family, and a section on geographical distribution.

It must be read in conjunction with his later work, especially his joint report (1937) with Dr. Mary Sears on the 'Thor' expedition to the Mediterranean, where he modified his earlier scheme for

<<<PAGE pdf=20 file=page_020.txt>>>
[PAGE 15]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	15

placing in one group all the Calycophores with a single nectophore. This 'Thor' report contains some of Bigelow's most beautiful siphonophore drawings, and it is here that can be found Bigelow's final scheme of classification. The 'Albatross' descriptions and figures of each species are most valuable, though inevitably there have taken place some of those annoying changes in nomenclature. My only comments on Bigelow's section (p. 267) on the 'Physophorae', to which he did not add in subsequent papers, are (1) that the Anthophysidae should be referred to as Athorybiidae, because of past confusion between Anthophysa and Athorybia. On pages 268-9 I think that the identity of the genus named Athorybia is really Melophysa and that of 'Anthophysa' is Athorybia as properly understood; and (2) that Nectalia Hkl 1888 probably refers to a juvenile growth stage of an Agalmid, so that no special sub-family or family group is needed. We really know rather less about physonects than about other siphonophores. Bigelow's subsequent work (1913, 1918, 1919, 1931, 1937) must also be studied in conjunction with his 'Albatross' report. I doubt if we shall see its like again.

MOSER

Another important and more recent work on siphonophores is the bulky volume by Fanny Moser on the specimens brought back by the German South Polar Expedition, sent to press in August 1914 but not published until 1925. It is concerned chiefly with the Calycophorae, of which she described nine new species, one of them Diphyes antarctica, confined to the Antarctic, but also contains descriptions of at least two new physophores, both Antarctic forms, Stephanomia convoluta and Pyrostephos vanhoffeni. Hitherto no work had been published on antarctic siphonophores.

Ninety-two of the four hundred and fifty-three pages that deal with siphonophores proper are taken up with general considerations of terminology, ontogeny, classification and phylogeny. Garstang (1946) has already published adverse criticisms of parts of those sections which were repeated in Kükenthal's Handbuch der Zoologie (Moser, 1924b). Nevertheless there is a great deal of information contained in the systematic part and in that dealing with distribution. Moser described about one-third of the species that we know to-day, fifty-one calycophores and six physonects. I am unable to do full justice to her report because of the paucity of my knowledge of the German language. Her comment on Haeckel's (1888b) monograph was (Haeckel's) 'Arbeit bildet auch heute noch einen Markstein in der Siphonophoren-Forschung'. In an interesting supplementary note dated February 1920 (p. 498) Moser (1925) recorded how in the interval that had taken place since finishing her work in February 1914, three of the remaining great authorities on siphonophores, Chun, Metschnikoff and Haeckel had passed away, leaving only Bigelow, who fortunately is still with us as I write this, thirty-four years later. I have been unable to ascertain what was the subsequent fate of Dr. Fanny Moser; nor do I know what happened to her report on Doflein's collection of siphonophores from Japan which she had begun, but feared (as she stated) might never be finished.

GARSTANG

The most important contribution to the understanding of siphonophore morphology and relationships made in Garstang's (1946) characteristically stimulating paper appear to me to be as follows:

The general direction of siphonophore evolution has probably been from Cystonectae with a large float and no nectophores (in the usual sense) ⟶ Physonectae with nectophores and a small float ⟶ Calycophorae with nectophores and no float. Garstang suggested that through atrophy the calycophore larva may have discarded a previously possessed float in favour of a precocious nectophore.

He visualized the phylogeny of siphonophores as having passed through three stages, comparable with those found in other groups, which originated from sessile stocks and became pelagic, e.g. Hydromedusae and Tunicata. These stages are (1) a locomotory larva, which metamorphoses into

<<<PAGE pdf=21 file=page_021.txt>>>
[PAGE 16]
[RUNNING HEAD] 16	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

fixed adult, which buds; (2) the addition of yolk to the egg leading to postponement of fixation and precocious larval budding; and (3) fixation abandoned, metamorphosis abbreviated and production of a nondescript oozooid nurse-carrier of secondary larvae which produce adults. He stated (p. 134) 'that there are grounds for thinking that a sequence of this kind has profoundly affected the character and organization of Siphonanth colonies. For budding begins in the earliest larval stage, the eggs of all Siphonanths are exceptionally large, and in Physophores only one egg is produced at a time – a feature which in Hydroids is associated with the formation of Actinula larvae. . . . It seems possible, therefore, that the original larva of Siphonanth ancestors was not a Planula but an Actinula, and that the Planuloid appearance of Siphonanth larvae is due to the precocity of budding before the typical Actinuloid characters have developed'.

This assumption led Garstang to suggest (p. 144) that siphonophore bracts are 'neither modified polyps nor modified medusoids, but represent the persistent tentacles of the original Actinula larvae more fully adapted for the locomotive and other functions (protective) which . . . they discharge'. Garstang revived Schneider's (1896) hypothesis that the primary (larval) bract, already verging on disappearance, in physonects, became secondarily fused with the larval nectophore in the Calycophorae, and he deduced that in the earliest stages of their history calycophores, as well as physonects, possessed larval bracts, probably before nectophores were evolved.

With increasing precocity, the first or larval bract was transformed into a transitory gelatinous shield over the budding area and in physophores the locomotor function was handed over to its successors (nectophores), while in calycophores, locomotive bracts became superfluous, and the primary bract was incorporated in the nectophore. I myself am inclined to think that in physonects the precocious bract was suppressed by the precocious nectophore on that side, so that the definitive nectophores were budded from the opposite side. It is not quite true that, as Garstang said, in siphonophores budding takes place in one meridian only, due to the early development of a thick muscular layer elsewhere. For it has been established that in most physonects (not apparently in Forskalia) the budding meridian for nectophores is on the side opposite that of siphosomal buds. The origin of this arrangement appears early on (see text-figs. 19 and 20 of the larvae of Agalma elegans) before the thick muscular layers are formed.

In this important paper Garstang gave a critical review of the opposing theories on siphonophore morphology held up to the year in which he wrote, and noted the confusion resulting in errors which had been perpetuated in text-book after text-book. He also included a very useful Glossary of Terms.

LELOUP

After many years of morphological research on Siphonophora some of us – Bigelow wisely is an exception – like to indulge in the luxury of a little stimulating speculation on phylogeny. Leloup published his thoughts on the subject in 1954, and the following review of it may be useful. Leloup (1954) summarized the published views of those who have been most interested in Siphonophora on the nature of these animals – whether they are individuals or colonies – and on their origin and phylogeny. It would perhaps have been less confusing if he had considered the disconanths (Chondrophora) apart from the siphonophores proper. Leloup is the first to have drawn attention to Hadzi's (1918 and 1944) speculation on the origin of these animals. I will here deal with what appears to be the most interesting or debateable features in Leloup's treatment of the subject. The minor criticisms I have to offer are included in square brackets.

Leloup maintained that siphonophores are derived from littoral gymnoblastic hydroids connected with the family Tubulariidae. He supported his general argument by a comparative study of the larvae of both groups (p. 674) and a study of pelagic tubularians which he called homologues of

<<<PAGE pdf=22 file=page_022.txt>>>
[PAGE 17]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	17

tachygenic actinulas, and suggested that they still have a link,* however temporary, with the benthos. The Siphonophora, said Leloup, demonstrate the evolution of a planktonic group which has tended to abandon progressively a passive life and to take on an active one with a transition towards an alternation of generations. [The last statement refers, I suppose, to the formation of a free-swimming eudoxid phase, one which is more properly, I think, to be regarded as the setting free of a group of buds, both larval and adult.] There will be general agreement with Leloup that the change from a fixed, benthic way of life to a planktonic one must have taken place during a larval phase.

Leloup felt forced by a study of embryology and comparative anatomy to divide siphonophores into four groups – 'Chondrophorides' [which I prefer to consider as a separate order Chondrophora (Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821)], 'Cystonectides, Physonectides and Calycophorides'. He calls the first three together 'Physophorides', without commitment to views on relationships. Quoting Moser (1925) he pointed out that there are no intermediate forms. What was capable of transformation has disappeared in the process. In default of palaeontological evidence we have to depend on embryology, where there is great condensation; and on morphology and ethology. A logical and objective hypothesis he said, postulates a common actinuloid larva in which at first the float (an invagination of the aboral pole of the larva) and trunk had equal importance, but in which, later on, they had evolved in opposite directions, that is towards predominance of trunk (siphosome) in 'Physophorides' and towards a nectosome [how is this related to the float?] in the 'Calycophorides'. For all siphonophores, he says, can be related to an initial form, derived from an actinula larva, the siphonula.† [I would stress the fact that Leloup's figure 4D represents a hypothetical form. We are familiar with all too few complete physonect or cystonect larvae. The best known are those of Physophora hydrostatica, Agalma elegans, Agalma okenii, Nanomia bijuga and Physalia physalis. Published figures of them are not always a good guide, and I would not venture to combine them into a common hypothetical form, as Leloup has done in his figure 4D.]

Leloup argued that, since a siphonula is found 'in its characteristic form' in the physonects, it is incontestable that the physonects appeared before the 'Calycophorides', whose larva, the calyconula, has evolved further than and can be derived from this siphonula. [I think that we must be careful that we really understand the morphology of the larvae of these two groups, and that we do not base our arguments on incorrect, schematic 'morphological types'.] Leloup went on to say that he has already established the relationship between the cystonect larva – the cystonula [and the larva of the Chondrophora – the ratarula] and this siphonula, but confessed that the one cannot be derived from the other. He then reviewed the attempts that have been made to relate his four groups. He stated his own hypothesis (p. 681) that although the larvae of the four groups can be derived from the same type of larval ancestor the siphonula [?] one cannot link together the Chondrophora and 'Cystonectides' of to-day with present day 'Physonectides and Calycophorides'. [Of course, the difficulty disappears when the Chondrophora are recognized as the odd group out, as it was by Haeckel (1888b) and Chun (1897a).] On his phylogenetic tree he labels a lower branch 'Cystonectidae' (and another 'Chondrophoridae').

He repeated his agreement with the view of Korschelt & Heider (1890) and myself (1932) – but omits Garstang's (1946) – that 'Calycophorides' are descended from 'Physophorides', and mentioned the differentiation of nectophores that has taken place in 'Calycophorides'. He thought that the 'grandes formes' [? Prayidae] were not the most complex, but that their structure was simple and repetitive, easily capable of giving rise to the 'formes petites' [? diphyids] with their complicated

[FOOTNOTE] * A fact verified by Werner (1954), whose paper on Margelopsis haeckeli was still in the press.
[FOOTNOTE] † It seems to have been Haeckel (1888b), who first introduced the term siphonula to indicate the young larva of any siphonophore. Here Leloup (1954, pp. 655 sqq.) uses the term in a restricted sense for a physonect larva. Is siphonula perhaps a lapsus linguae for physonula, a term that he nowhere employs? Throughout this work I have avoided the use of Haeckel's terms (siphonula, cystonula, physonula and calyconula) for they would seem to indicate that the larval phase is transitory, whereas in my view it is permanent.

<<<PAGE pdf=23 file=page_023.txt>>>
[PAGE 18]
[RUNNING HEAD] 18	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

structure. He thought that the possession of only one nectophore is due either to tachygenesis or to a tendency to reduce the number of organs in order to increase speed.

In section IIIa Leloup dealt with 'Physophorides' (sensu Eschscholtz, 1829, that is including Chondrophora). Though the adults of his three groups differ from one another so much, Leloup said that their ontogeny was so similar that he dared not separate them.

On page 682 Leloup stated that a study of ontogeny proved that the larva of Chondrophora, the ratarula, had an organization more ancestral than the 'larve siphonula' of the cystonects, and that the ratarula presented a mixture of primitive characters and of more highly evolved ones by comparison with the actinula larva of certain present day hydroids. [I must point out that the only certainly known cystonect larva is that of Physalia. No reliance should be placed, except with great reserve, on certain figures of Haeckel's purporting to be of this nature. Leloup reproduced them in his figure 3 as larvae of a cystonect, Cystalia monogastrica. This specific name is applicable only to figure 5 of Haeckel's (1888b) plate XXII. The larvae which he took in a townet Haeckel thought might belong to this species. Certainly no phylogentic arguments should be based on larvae of such doubtful parentage and identity. It is true that Leloup's figure 3B shows a larva not unlike that of Physalia. But I have grave doubts about the existence of Haeckel's Epibuliidae. As already stated (p. 8), Epibulia is a synonym of Rhizophysa, and has been used also for Sulculeolaria quadridentata.] Leloup (p. 682) said that a distant ancestor of the 'Physophorides' resembling an actinula with a float must have evolved in two directions. One group, keeping its aboral tentacles (ratarula) and expanding laterally, gave rise to the surface-living Chondrophora. Another group lost its aboral tentacles (siphonula) and subsequently lengthened. 'Adults' [physonects] have colonized even the great depths. [I have adopted Leloup's idea that the siphonophore tentacle represents one of the oral ones.]

On page 683, starting with the ancestral stage of a lengthening siphonula, Leloup postulated development of cystonects through a middle-zone proliferation which produced groups of polymorphic buds – the cormidia – accompanying the 'reproductive organs' which groups he said remained attached to the stem [in reality they finally break away].

In certain other siphonulas a second budding region, the nectosome, was formed for modified medusae, the nectophores. From these he derived the physonects, of which he regarded the Forskaliidae, as most primitive. He briefly described their families and organization.

In section IIIB Leloup tackled the phylogeny of the 'Calycophorides', showing that some authors have considered forms with a single nectophore – [the classification of Monophyidae, Diphyidae and Polyphyidae is outmoded] – as primitive [a proposition with which I dealt in 1932] and that other authors have thought that the polyphyids were the founders of the 'Calycophorides': Chun (1897b) and Moser (1925) thought that monophyids had given rise to diphyids, and these in turn to polyphyids. He quoted the systematic arrangement of the calycophorids adopted by Chun, Moser, Lameere (1929), Delage & Hérouard (1901), Schneider (1898) and my own tentative suggestions of 1932.

Finally in section IIIB2 Leloup gave his conception personelle of the phylogeny of the 'Calycophorides', which he derived from an ancestor shared by the 'Physonectides' and resembling the siphonula [? physonula], the difference being that in the 'Calycophorides' the first formed nectophore rapidly acquires a power sufficient to move the colony along at a progressively increased speed. He thought that the Hippopodiidae were the most primitive. Where, amongst the siphonophores, the fully developed buds ('les éléments adultes') are restricted in number, the phenomenon of a very complicated organization indicates an advanced stage of evolution. [I think the Prayidae are more primitive, and the Hippopodiidae are more complicated.]

The behaviour of the animals throws light on their phylogeny and evolution. Siphonophores have rid themselves of a life of slow locomotion ('Prayomorphes') and have adopted a rapid one ('Diphyo-

<<<PAGE pdf=24 file=page_024.txt>>>
[PAGE 19]
[RUNNING HEAD] HISTORICAL REVIEW OF THE CHIEF WORKS ON THE ORDER	19

morphes') with occasional returns to a passive one (Sphaeronectidae). [I know of no one who has described their movements, and personal observation does not suggest that sphaeronectids are active movers.] Colonies tend to become small, and this reduction affects the two zones of proliferation – a progressive limitation in numbers of nectophores. Sometimes, Leloup thought, the retention of only a single nectophore has arisen through tachygenesis. [I suspect that the single nectophore of Sphaeronectes spp. is the larval one retained.] Reduction affects the siphosome by precocious formation of eudoxids which lighten the colony and gives it greater speed. This is the origin of the generation alternante.

Where the stem is long and carries many cormidia (Hippopodiidae) Leloup said that the definitive (réserves) nectophores ejected the old ones, whilst where the stem is shortened by precocious liberation of eudoxids the 'reserve' bells were fewer and even disappeared completely (Monophyides). [From personal observation I doubt Leloup's statements about the comparative lengths of stems. That of Chelophyes appendiculata can be astonishingly long. I doubt if the lengths have been recorded with sufficient detail to judge.] Leloup then drew attention to the progressive stream-lining of nectophores in diphyids. The change in arrangement of nectophores from opposite rows to a fore-and-aft one favours ability to move (déplacement) rapidly. With this tendency arises another towards protection of the stem-buds both of the nectosome and siphosome. [Leloup gave an interpretation of the evolution of the hydroecium which I do not find very satisfying. A great deal depends on whether the anterior nectophore of Abylidae, Chuniphyidae and some Diphyidae is, as I suspect, the larval one retained.]

Leloup then discussed briefly the specific gravity of the whole calycophore and of its separate parts, but without mention of the work of Jacobs (1937). 'Calycophores' with numerous similar nectophores arranged in two sub-opposite rows, the Hippopodiidae were, he thought, the most primitive. The position of the desmophyids [I know of only one species], Leloup says is ill-defined, as is that of the stephanophyids, whose four adult nectophores are arranged in a tight spiral: 'le long d'une hélice à tours très serrés'. These polyphyids, which move fairly rapidly, were followed, he said, in his evolutionary story by the Prayidae, which gave rise to two evolutionary lines. One led either to neotenous monophyids – Sphaeronectidae [which in my view are descended from precursors of abylids. I agree with Leloup that the single nectophore of Sphaeronectes is probably the larval one retained. For some years I have been collecting progressively earlier larval stages and think I now have critical stages to prove it] or to a line that culminated in degenerate diphyids (Amphicaryon [ = Mitrophyes] ) and degenerate monophyids, Nectopyramis spp. The second line diverging from Prayidae led on, he thought, to the Clausophyidae. [There is a somatocyst in the posterior nectophore as well as in the anterior, which I believe to be the larval one retained. A somatocyst in the posterior nectophore seems to me to be a primitive feature.] Leloup thought that the Clausophyidae led on to the Diphyidae [which in my view at present form a catch-all group. The anterior nectophore of species of the genus Diphyes will prove, I believe, to be the larval nectophore retained. I collected a number of very early growth-stages of D. dispar at Arrecife in 1955 and I hope that they will prove the point. The same thing holds true, I believe, for Clausophyidae, Chuniphyidae and Abylidae]. Leloup's brief characterization of all these groups does not, I think, throw much light on Phylogeny, but we are all indebted to him for a great deal of very useful research work on the group. I regret to say that I do not consider that the suggested lines of descent shown on pages 692–4 are, in general, very probable. A great deal of further research is needed before we can really judge.

<<<PAGE pdf=25 file=page_025.txt>>>
[PAGE 20]
[RUNNING HEAD] 20	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

GROSS MORPHOLOGY

As already stated on page 2, a fully grown siphonophore is essentially an over-grown oozooid polyp that remains juvenile and asexual, but which carries round with it large numbers of other unseparated, asexual, juvenile polyps (gastrozooids, palpons and bracts) as well as sexual adults (medusoid gonophores) and asexual adults (medusoid nectophores), all budded from the original and often much elongated oozooid, or from other juveniles. Examination of the younger growth stages reveals three general patterns of organization, at first sight very complex, but in essence closely resembling each other in the very youngest stages: I in the Cystonectae, II in the Physonectae and III in the Calycophorae.

[FIGURE]
PZ
ORAL ZONE
V
IV
T.o
GZ VI or VII
GZ III
T II
GZ II
AMP
T I₁
GZ I₁
I₂
0	1 mm

FIG. 1.   Cystonect larva: Physalia physalis
PZ = protozooid; T.o = tentacle of protozooid; GZ I₁–VII = secondary gastrozooids; T I₁ T II = tentacles of secondary gastrozooids; AMP = ampulla (basigaster); I₂ = second group of cormidium. (from Totton, 1960, fig. 24C).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
[?0·4mm]
Gz.5
Gz.4
Gz.3
P.n.
N.B.
Gz²
Tl.
Gz¹
0

FIG. 2.   Physonect larva: Nanomia bijuga
Pn = pneumatophore; Gz¹ = protozooid; Tl = tentacle of protozooid; Gz²⁻⁵ = secondary gastrozooids; N.B. = nectosomal budding zone (from Totton, 1954, fig. 3B).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the scale-bar label at the top left of FIG. 2 reads as the glyphs '0 4 m m' with no decimal point visible at 300 dpi; the labels for the third, fourth and fifth gastrozooids are printed 'Gz.5', 'Gz.4', 'Gz.3' (a leader dash follows each), whereas the caption uses the superscript form Gz²⁻⁵.]

A study of these patterns shows that in I, the Cystonectae (text-fig. 1), there is a floating larval polyp, the oozooid, with its protozooid (primary gastrozooid), a single, highly contractile tentacle and an aboral air-float (pneumatophore) on one side of which buds of secondary larval polyps (gastrozooids) appear. These buds may eventually give rise by further budding to groups of more larval polyps and adult medusoids to form very complex cormidia, as in Physalia. In II, the Physonectae (text-fig. 2), a condition can be seen which is very similar to that found in simple cystonects, except that the siphosome, the budding zone of the larval polyps, arises on one side of the float, and that a second budding zone, the nectosome, appears on the opposite side and gives rise only to adult asexual nectophores (medusoids). As in I, the larval polyp buds give rise to cormidia, and in addition some of the buds develop into protective or buoyant bracts. In III, the Calycophorae (text-fig. 3), the aboral part of the larva is atrophied and there is no float, but in other respects it can be compared with II. The larval polyp gives rise to two budding zones (as in II), siphosome and nectosome (text-fig. 4), but in addition a larval nectophore, which may or may not be lost later on, develops precociously as a

<<<PAGE pdf=26 file=page_026.txt>>>
[PAGE 21]
[RUNNING HEAD] GROSS MORPHOLOGY	21

[FIGURE]
ab
n¹
t¹
A
so
gz¹
B
n¹
so
n
gz¹
C
so
st
n.d
D
gz¹

FIG. 3.   Calycophore larvae: Muggiaea atlantica
A, ca. 36 hours old; B, less than 48 hours old, both reared in the laboratory at Plymouth, × 150; C, a larval nectophore 1.3 mm high taken in the plankton, × 150. The bud, n, of the definitive nectophore, n.d, can be seen; D, the young definitive nectophore and stump, st, from which the larval one has separated, × 150. ab = aboral end; n¹ = precocious larval nectophore; so = somatocyst; t¹ = larval tentacle; gz¹ = protozooid (from Russell, 1938, figs. 3, 5, 6).
[/FIGURE]

protective housing for the siphosome, which hangs down inside and is retractable within the hydroecium. The budding zone of the nectosome remains short and near that of the siphosome, instead of being carried upwards, farther and farther away from it as in some physonects.

From these three basic patterns the full grown forms found in the three sub-orders of the Siphonophora arise. From the first, the larval cystonect, the budding zone either develops into a long stem (Pl. I, fig. 3), depending from the aboral float and carrying the cormidial groups, as in Bathyphysa and Rhizophysa (the earliest developmental stages of which are unknown), or the budding zone is

<<<PAGE pdf=27 file=page_027.txt>>>
[PAGE 22]
[RUNNING HEAD] 22	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
n.l
so
h
n.d
st
z.b
gz
br
go
gz
t
v
A
n.l
so
n.d
n.p
st
go
br
gz
B

FIG. 4.   Calycophore larvae: A, Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis, larval nectophore stage; B, Chelophyes appendiculata, larval and first definitive nectophores, and two budding zones, × 150
n.d = first definitive (anterior) nectophore; n.p = bud of second (posterior) nectophore; so = somatocyst; st = stem; gz = gastrozooids; br = bracts; go = gonophore; z.b = budding zone; t = tentacle (after Lochmann, 1914, Pl. VII, figs. 1, 4).
[/FIGURE]

confined to the so-called ventral surface of the float, as in Physalia physalis (Pl. I, fig. 1). (The morphological pattern of the full grown Physalia resembles most closely the larval pattern, basic to all the categories I, II and III.) The cormidia each consist of branches carrying further groups, each group consisting of gastrozooid, tentacle and gonodendron (text-fig. 5). The gonodendra are complex structures which are formed by the successive budding of palpons (modified gastrozooids) from the foot-stalks of their predecessors, the original ones having been budded from the oozooid. The final series of palpons bud off the little adults proper in the form of (1) sexual medusoid gonophores, (2) asexual medusoid nectophores, and (3) in Physalia only, reduced, asexual medusoid nectophores (text-fig. 6) the 'jelly-polyps'. The terminal gonodendron groups may become detached and the nectophores function for propulsion.

From the second, the larval physonect, growth of the two budding zones in long-stemmed forms results in the formation of the two regions of the siphonophore: (a) the upward growing nectosome, terminated by the aboral float and carrying nectophores only, and (b) the siphosome carrying the cormidial groups of gastrozooids, palpons and gonophores with their buoyant bracts; the two regions are separated from one another by a zone of minimal growth (text-fig. 7). The nectosome serves to support and propel the siphonophore as a whole. The youngest nectophores are found immediately below the aboral float and the original larval polyp-group terminates the siphosome. This terminal group consists of the original gastrozooid, the protozooid, with its larval tentacle, and the secondarily budded palpons and larval bracts, but has no gonophores. The cormidial groups are budded from the siphosome stem, between the zone of minimal growth and the terminal, primary polyp-group. Each cormidium consists of a gastrozooid with a tentacle, branched (except in Apolemia), surrounded by bracts and palpons, and male and female gonophores. Sometimes one of these medusoid gonophores is asexual – a nectophore. The cormidia do not exhibit the same degree of branching and sub-branching as in the Cystonectae, nor do they break away as a whole and become free-swimming, except in Apolemia uvaria.

<<<PAGE pdf=28 file=page_028.txt>>>
[PAGE 23]
[RUNNING HEAD] GROSS MORPHOLOGY	23

[FIGURE]
T₃
T₄
T₅
GZ₃
T₂
GZ OF GON₂
A
C
0
2 mm
GZ₂
B

FIG. 5.   Young cormidium: Physalia physalis
Cormidium 5 (oral zone) less group 1, to show budding. GZ₂GZ₃ = gastrozooids; GZ OF GON = secondary gastrozooid: initial growth-stage of a gonodendron; T₂₋₅ = tentacles (from Totton, 1960, fig. 15).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
g
jp
p
nect
p

Physalia physalis
FIG. 6.   Terminal part of a gonodendron:
× 15
g = styloid gonophore; jp = jelly-polyp; nect = nectophore; p = palpon (from Totton, 1960, fig. 29).
[/FIGURE]

Not all the Physonectae are long-stemmed forms. Progressive shortening or perhaps failure to lengthen, of both nectosome and siphosome occurs, sometimes accompanied by enlargement of the aboral float. An extreme example of these changes in form is seen in Stephalia corona (Pl. XVIII, fig. 1) where the distended float lies above a circle of nectophores. In Physophora hydrostatica (Pl. XV, figs. 1, 9) the siphosome is hypertrophied to form a sac and in Athorybia rosacea (Pl. XVII, fig. 1) all the nectophores have been lost.

From the third type of larva, the calycophore, the nectosome gives rise to a varying number of asexual nectophores, each budded from the foot-stalk of its predecessor. They lie at the aboral pole of the siphonophore. There may be a single nectophore as in Muggiaea (Pl. XXXII, fig. 1); two nectophores as in abylids (Pl. XXXVIII, figs. 1–3), one being the persistent larval nectophore; several, in a circle as in Stephanophyes (Pl. XXV), or alternating and closely arranged as in Hippopodius (Pl. XXVIII). In forms where the larval nectophore is caducous, the adult nectophores are replaceable by budding from the nectosome.

The siphosome, the second budding zone on the opposite side of the calycophore larva, gives rise to the stem-groups. Three growth phases generally occur in the further development of the calycophore: (1) the polygastric (text-fig. 8), (2) the eudoxid (text-fig. 9), and (3) the mature free adult medusoid phase (text-fig. 10). The first phase is called polygastric because the middle stem-part of the animal carries a succession of gastrozooids and tentacles, each gastrozooid accompanied by a single bract and medusoid gonophores. This phase is comparable with the condition found in a long-stemmed physonect, where palpons, gonophores and bracts are grouped with a gastrozooid to form a succession of cormidia, except that in the calycophore there are usually no palpons. In the second phase, the eudoxid, the stem-groups become free-swimming through fragmentation of the stem

<<<PAGE pdf=29 file=page_029.txt>>>
[PAGE 24]
[RUNNING HEAD] 24	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
pn
B
st
A
n.b
C
go.♂
br.b
n
c.br
br.l
n
g.b
x
b.z
A¹
gz⁴
go.♂
n
st
gz³
go.♀
pl
go.♂
br
st
gz²
c
D
b
g
f
e
d
go.♂
bl
br.l
br
br
pz
a
a
a
a
a
gz¹
br
t
pz
a
gz¹
pl
t.l
E

FIG. 7.   A young physonect: Agalma elegans (Sars)
A, whole animal showing nectosome, siphosome with five cormidia and the protozooid, × 1.8; A¹, to show twisting of the nectosome for convenience of representation; B, nectosome enlarged, × 5; C, cormidial budding, male gonophores only, × 13; D, enlarged drawing of the distal end showing the protozooid and the first definitive gastrozooid with their associated palpons and bracts, × 7; E, tentillum of the protozooid, × 35
a – g = 1st to 7th series of palpons; pz = protozooid; gz¹⁻⁴ = secondary gastrozooids; br = bract; br.b = bud of bract; br.l = bracteal lamella; c.br = bracteal canal; go.♂, go.♀ = gonophores; n = nectophore; pl = palpon (fig. C); pl = papacle (fig. D); pn = pneumatophore; t = tentacle; t.l = larval tentacle; st = stem; n.b = nectophore bud; bl = blastostyle; g.b = gonophore bud; b.z = budding zone of siphosome; x = zone of minimal growth (after Totton, 1954, frontispiece).
[/FIGURE]

<<<PAGE pdf=30 file=page_030.txt>>>
[PAGE 25]
[RUNNING HEAD] GROSS MORPHOLOGY	25

(Pl. XXII, figs. 2, 6). Each eudoxid consists of one gastrozooid and tentacle, with its accompanying medusoid gonophores, the whole generally covered by a protective and buoyant bract (the Hippopodiidae forming the exception). The eudoxid is capable of budding additional gonophores. One of the medusoids may lose its sexual function and become what is known as a special swimming-bell, or a sexual medusoid can function for propulsion. In the third final phase, the gonophores generally break away and swim free. The phenomenon of fragmentation probably has a selection value in that it ensures cross-fertilization. Certainly the Calycophorae are the most numerous and the most highly evolved of the siphonophores.

[NOTE: the remainder of the page is set in two unequal columns; FIG. 8 with its caption occupies the left column and the running prose the right. The figure and caption are given first here, then the right-hand column of text.]

[FIGURE]
n₁
C.ol
ns₁
hy
n₂
ns₂
hy
sp.n
br
t
tr

FIG. 8.   Polygastric phase of a calycophore: Diphyes dispar
C.ol = somatocyst; hy = hydroecium; br = bract; n₁n₂ = first and second nectophores; ns₁ns₂ = nectosacs of nectophores 1 and 2; sp.n = special, asexual nectophore; t = tentacle; tr = stem (from Kawamura 1915, pl. xii, fig. 21).
[/FIGURE]

The conclusion I have drawn from the study of the siphonophore larvae is that, as Garstang (1946) supposed, they are generally comparable with the actinulae of certain gymnoblastic hydroids (text-fig. 11). In this group of hydroids the larvae usually become fixed by the aboral pole and develop into polyps, which give rise asexually by budding to more polyps and gonophores (blastostyles), which latter bud off free-swimming sexual medusae. In some species however, Margelopsis and Pelagohydra, the polyp-stage is mostly pelagic, though Werner (1954) has shown that Margelopsis has a seasonal, benthic, larval phase. In the Siphonophora, the typical actinuloid pattern of development has been suppressed, no larval fixation takes place, although the power to bud off polyps and medusoids has been retained. It is possible, however, to homologize a certain larval structure in the siphonophore, the somatocyst, with that of the actinuloid tentacle (text-fig. 3b).

Those siphonophore structures derived from polyp- or medusoid buds will now be discussed.

1. Polyp derivatives are essentially in a larval or juvenile phase. They include the following: Gastrozooids or feeding polyps which retain one larval tentacle – the tentacle may be modified by branching to form a series of tentilla. Palpons or reduced gastrozooids, with simple tentacles or palpacles. And lastly, Bracts (Pl. IX, figs. 4–6). Gastrozooids may bud off more gastrozooids, palpons or bracts from the foot-stalks which join them to the stem of the siphonophore. In my opinion bracts are either modified palpons or gastrozooids. Schneider (1896, pp. 615–6, Taf. 44, figs. 11, 15, 18, 21–2) demonstrated clearly the origin of bract and accompanying gonophore as a twin bud on the foot-stalk of a gastrozooid. The bracteal canal does not branch from a common pedicel as in a medusoid; it represents the reduced cavity of a polypoid-zooid.

2. Medusoid derivatives are essentially in the adult phase and usually show their medusoid derivation in the retention and arrangement of the circular and radial canals. They include the following structures, which may be either functional or reduced, sexual gonophores and asexual nectophores.

(1) Sexual gonophores (text-figs. 7C, 10) can be homologized with those on the blastostyles of actinulae. They are budded from the foot-stalks of the secondary (juvenile) polypoids, which arise on the siphosome, and through gradual elongation of the siphonophore stem these groups of zooids come to lie farther and farther from the aboral pole. They retain

3

<<<PAGE pdf=31 file=page_031.txt>>>
[PAGE 26]
[RUNNING HEAD] 26	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
br
gn
gz
1MM
gz
ns
gn
1MM
A
B

FIG. 9.   Eudoxid phase of calycophores: A, Chelophyes appendiculata; B, Diphyes bojani
br = bract; gn = gonophore; gz = gastrozooid; ns = special asexual nectophore (from Totton, 1932, figs. 25, 22B).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the two scale-bar labels are hand-lettered as a bare vertical stroke followed by small-capital MM; read here as '1MM'.]

the medusoid characters to a varying degree. In the Physonectae, they are small medusoids of the codonid type, with sexual products developed on the mouthless manubrium, but without marginal tentacles. In the Calycophorae, they are also codonid, but are larger and accompanied by a floatation-bract (a modified polypoid); in the most highly evolved forms, the Abylidae, they become largest of all and most complex in their development of ridges and prominences. In the Cystonectae, on the contrary, the gonophores are vestigial and styloid.

(2) Asexual nectophores lack a manubrium and sexual products. There are two categories: (a) nectophores which arise (often precociously) on the nectosomal budding zone of the oozooid (text-fig. 7B), and (b) those which arise on the siphosome in the same way as do the gonophores (text-fig. 9B). In the Physonectae, the nectophores are all of the first category and function only as swimming-bells. In the Cystonectae, the nectophores are of the second category and occur in the cormidia on the terminal branchlets of the gonodendra. Some are reduced to mere vestiges, the 'jelly-polyps' (see p. 40 and text-fig. 6). In the Calycophorae, nectophores of both categories occur. The first nectosomal nectophore appears precociously, budded from the larva, and is often shed later on. The succeeding aboral nectophores are budded in varying numbers from the foot-stalks of their predecessors. These nectosomal nectophores are associated with a somewhat puzzling

<<<PAGE pdf=32 file=page_032.txt>>>
[PAGE 27]
[RUNNING HEAD] GROSS MORPHOLOGY	27

structure, the somatocyst, a caecal diverticulum of their pedicels (text-figs. 3, 4). I hold the view, already stated on page 25, that this structure is the homologue of an ancestral actinuloid tentacle. Garstang (1946) dealt with earlier interpretations. Nectophores of the second category of nectophores form part of the stem-groups. Thus, medusoid gonophores and nectophores may occur together in the same stem-group or in the same eudoxid as (a) small somewhat reduced gonophores, and (b) a larger special swimming-bell.

In Rosacea cymbiformis, for example, the sexual kind (a) may at first contain only a rudiment of a manubrium and sexual products, while it intermittently propels its still unseparated eudoxid during full extension of the stem. Only shortly before fragmentation of the stem and separation of the eudoxids does it become sexually mature, but it is still capable of propulsion. In Lilyopsis spp., the special swimming-bell (b) has not even a rudiment of a manubrium from the start and is entirely asexual (text-fig. 71). It is accompanied by the much smaller type of gonophore (a) just described.

In view of the fact that these codonid medusoids, some of which are so small that they tend to be overlooked, are the true siphonophore adults, it may not be out of place here to refer readers who are not medusologists to an account by Kühn (1913, pp. 153–73) of the development and basic organization of Anthomedusae.

Chun (1891–97) in Bronn's Tierreich had already distinguished medusae from medusoids by the presence or absence of a mouth on the manubrium. Kühn accepted this definition. He pointed out (loc. cit., p. 3) that in the Hydroida the gonozooids could be true free-swimming medusae, but that

[FIGURE]
A
D
o
m
B
C
·5 mm
ns
3 mm
m
E

FIG. 10.   Adult medusoids: A, B, Halistemma rubrum, ♂, × 12 approx.; C, a sperm head from the same, × 600 (from Vogt, 1854, Pl. X, figs. 29–31); D, Chelophyes appendiculata ♂ (from Totton, 1932, fig. 26A); E, Ceratocymba dentata ♀ (from Totton, 1954, fig. 81A).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the two scale-bar labels ('·5 mm' and '3 mm') are printed rotated 90° anticlockwise beside their bars.]

<<<PAGE pdf=33 file=page_033.txt>>>
[PAGE 28]
[RUNNING HEAD] 28	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
1 mm.
1 mm.
o.t.
o.t.
abo.t.
abo.r.
abo.t.
c.
p.
c.e.
A
B

FIG. 11.   Actinula larva of a gymnoblastic hydroid, Tubularia larynx
abo.r = aboral region shown in optical section in B (semi-diagrammatic); abo.t = aboral tentacle; c = coelenteron; c.e = columnar ectoderm; p = perisarc; o.t = oral tentacle (from Pyefinch and Downing, 1949, fig. 1).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the remainder of the page is set in two unequal columns; FIG. 12 with its caption occupies the left column and the running prose the right. The figure and caption are given first here, then the right-hand column of text.]

[FIGURE]
n.t

FIG. 12.   Nerve-tract of a nectophore of Nanomia bijuga × 42 (by permission of G. O. Mackie)
The stem is bent to one side to show the attachment lamella and the course of the exumbrella nerve-tract, n.t.
[/FIGURE]

the gonophores frequently remained attached to the individuals from which they are budded, and that then the medusa-structure is modified to become medusoid. A similar sequence of events occurs in the Siphonophora, except that the free-swimming phase is always medusoid. I do not recall ever seeing the manubrium of siphonophore gonophores ingesting food, not even in the eudoxid phase of the calycophores. Kühn recognized five special types of medusoids in the Hydroida; only one of these, the styloid occurs in siphonophores, in the Cystonectae (text-fig. 6).

To sum up: these various polypoid and medusoid persons are associated in different combinations in the three sub-orders of the Siphonophora, in both the larval and in later growth phases:

A.   Cystonectae and Physonectae have cormidial groups. A cormidium (except in Apolemia (text-fig. 13, p. 46) ) is a non-separating stem-group consisting of secondary polyps – gastrozooids, palpons and bracts (when present) – and gonodendra, carrying nectophores in the Cystonectae, or gonophores generally with no nectophores in the Physonectae. The cystonect larval phase comprises the oozooid before there is any complex branching of cormidia. The physonect larval phase shows larval bracts covering the pneumatophore of the oozooid, and buds of gastrozooids and palpons on one side

<<<PAGE pdf=34 file=page_034.txt>>>
[PAGE 29]
[RUNNING HEAD] REPRODUCTION	29

of the oozooid and generally buds of nectophores on the other side (text-fig. 19, p. 55, and Totton (1956), fig. 1).

B.   Calycophorae. Four growth phases are found:

1.   Larval phase comprising the whole oozooid with its precocious nectophore (text-figs. 3, 4).
2.   Polygastric phase – the growth stage between larva and eudoxid, comprising nectosome and siphosome with still attached groups of gastrozooids, palpons (in Stephanophyes Pl. XXVI, fig. 1, only), bracts when present, and buds of gonophores (text-fig. 8, and Pl. XXX).
3.   Eudoxid phase – the last growth stage before the setting free of the mature individual gonophore medusoids, when the groups have separated (text-fig. 9).
4.   The mature free adult medusoid phase – the free-swimming gonophores (text-fig. 10).

The two poles – oral and aboral – of the mature siphonophore, even when the stem reaches a length of fifty metres or more as it may in Apolemia, are precisely those of the original oozooid now immensely elongated, namely the mouth of the protozooid and in cystonects and physonects the apex of the pneumatophore, or in the calycophores the upper end of the stem. Although the various polyps and medusoids may move or feed independently, or groups of them break away and lead a free existence, yet there is co-ordination of the whole nurse-carrier. Examples of this can be seen when an agalmid, a forskaliid, a prayid or a diphyid contracts and initiates an evasive swimming-movement; when the stem of a prayid relaxes and the medusoids swim all together to extend the drift-net-like expanse of tentacles; or when, on stimulating the pneumatophore of a Physophora, the heavily armed tips of the ring of palpons are thrown up to the spot, probably in a defensive movement (Pl. XV, fig. 10). Again a small diphyid like Chelophyes appendiculata, which in a resting position is orientated with its long axis vertical, makes occasionally a few slow contractions of the nectosac of the larger nectophore to overcome the effect of sinking, and when stimulated makes a long series of co-ordinated contractions of both nectophores which provides a high-speed evasive mechanism. Another example is provided by Physalia. The stimulation of a wounded fish causes many gastrozooids to become active, open their mouths and attach them, spread-out, side by side on to the surface of the fish which is then digested. Physalia alone among the siphonophores is a passive drifter at the surface of the sea. The physonect Athorybia can swim up to the surface by co-ordinated movement of its paddling bracts, while other physonects swim by co-ordinated movements of the series of nectophores; the direction of the propulsive jets made by these nectophores can be changed to bring about a reversal of the main direction of progression. The nerve that initiates this change was first observed by Dr. G. O. Mackie (text-fig. 12).

REPRODUCTION

I should like to repeat here that the fully grown siphonophore is an over-grown, larval nurse-carrier (paedophore) that does not itself become sexually mature. The nurse-carrier gives rise to adult medusoid gonophores of both sexes, though each single gonophore is either male or female. Only one example of a unisexual siphonophore is known, Physalia physalis, in which all the adults are of one sex only in each animal. In the Physonectae, gonophores of both sexes occur in any cormidium. In Nanomia, there is an arrangement of particular interest, the sexes of the groups of gonophores (borne in pairs at the bases of the palpons) alternating from side to side as successive palpons are budded (text-fig. 36, p. 71). In the Calycophorae, where also there is repetitive budding of stem-groups (later

<<<PAGE pdf=35 file=page_035.txt>>>
[PAGE 30]
[RUNNING HEAD] 30	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

freed as eudoxids), the first budded gonophore of a single group may be of one sex and the second budded of the other sex; or all the gonophores of a single group may be unisexual (text-figs. 83, 84, pp. 145–146).

These medusoid adults, the gonophores, may be either free-swimming codonid medusae, as in physonects and calycophores, or reduced cryptomedusoid or styloid medusoids which are not individually freed, but may possibly become freed as the terminal part of the complex gonodendra of the cormidia, as in cystonects.

I have observed ripe male gonophores of a freely swimming diphyid emitting a continuous jet-stream of sperms into the water, until the manubrium of the gonophore shrank to a vestige. No detailed description or good figures of the spermatozoa or their maturation are known to me. Vogt (1854) figured the head only in plate 10, figure 31. I was fortunate in February 1963 to obtain a specimen of Halistemma rubrum, two feet long, with ripe male gonophores and I was able with great difficulty to examine the live sperms. I could see that the tail was fifteen times as long as the head, and that Vogt's figure of the head is a good representation of its appearance (text-fig. 10C).

The siphonophore egg is spherical, transparent and contains a large quantity of yolk. Often gonophores produce only one egg. The diameter of the eggs of Halistemma rubrum, in the specimen just mentioned, was about 0·7 mm. Early cleavage and development of the siphonophore eggs has been described by Haeckel (1869), Metschnikoff (1874), Chun (1882), Lochmann (1914) and more recently by Russell (1938) in a beautifully illustrated paper on the ontogeny of Muggiaea atlantica.

From the work of these authors, it appears that the development of the egg up to the appearance of the rudiment of the larval bract, or of the precocious nectophore takes place rather more slowly in the Physonectae than in the Calycophorae. The development of the egg in the Cystonectae has not been studied; the earliest known larval stages are those of Physalia (Totton, 1960). In all the species of physonects and calycophores examined, segmentation is regular and results in the formation of an elongated, ciliated, planuloid-actinula larva. According to Haeckel (1869), this process in the physonects Physophora, Agalma and Athorybia takes place about the third day and by the fifth day a larval bract is well developed in the first two species, but in Athorybia this occurs about the seventh day. Metschnikoff (1874) studied Agalma and Nanomia, and the calycophores Sulculeolaria and Hippopodius as well. His results coincide with those of Haeckel for Agalma, and he pointed out that in Nanomia no larval bract is developed, and that by the sixth day rudimentary siphosomal buds have appeared. In Sulculeolaria and Hippopodius, the precocious nectophore appears about the fifth day, but in the calycophore Muggiaea, its development is more rapid. Two species, M. kochi and M. atlantica, were studied, the first by Chun (1882) and the second by Russell (1938), and the latter stated that the course of development was the same in both. By the third day in atlantica, 'all signs of the original planula* have disappeared and the primary nectophore is fully developed, with somatocyst, siphon, tentacle . . . and the rudiment of the secondary nectophore' (Russell, loc. cit., p. 433) (see text-fig. 3). Once the rudiments of buds have been developed, the ensuing sequence of events results in the formation of the physonect or calycophore larva described on pages 20–25.

PHYLOGENY

The structural homologies between hydrozoan polyps and medusae are explained in any good text-book. The two phases have evolved from one another at different rates in different groups. It may be that originally the larval polyp metamorphosed into the adult medusa, and that later in ways not visualized as yet the sexually mature medusa arose by budding from the asexual larva. I myself imagine that all polyps of a hydrozoan stock once gave rise by budding to medusae; that then certain

[FOOTNOTE] * Except its oral half which develops into the protozooid.

[NOTE: a stray thin curved ink mark (scan or page blemish, not type) sits above the letters "oma" of the broken word "soma-tocyst" near the foot of the main text.]

<<<PAGE pdf=36 file=page_036.txt>>>
[PAGE 31]
[RUNNING HEAD] PHYLOGENY	31

polyps alone came to retain this function; that these polyps were reduced during the growth of the medusoid gonophores finally to vestigial blastostyles. The last stage of this reduction process may be represented perhaps in physonects like Agalma elegans, where, although in the mature state individual gonophores appear to arise singly from the stem, in earlier growth stages it can be seen that they arise from certain loci, which may be the final vestiges of blastostyles. As growth and elongation of the stem takes place, the points of attachment of the gonophore-pedicels can also be seen to separate from one another.

Much has been written on this subject since Huxley's (1859) and Allman's (1871) days, and it is necessary to consult their work to ascertain what exactly they meant by such terms as gonoblastidium, ectotheca, perigonium, gonangium, sporosac, planoblast, gonocheme, gonophore, zooid, hydranth, blastocheme and blastostyle. Various opinions about the interpretation of these structures have been put forward by such workers as Weissmann (1883), Goette (1907), Kühn (1910, 1913), Goto (1910), Delsman (1911) and others. Here it is necessary only to quote Allman's (1871, p. xv) definition of the term blastostyle: 'a columniform zooid destined to give origin to generative buds' and perhaps amend it to read: 'the base of a columniform zooid . . .'

It is not appropriate here to re-examine the Hydroida, nor to give a review of the voluminous literature, but there is abundant evidence for deducing that in that Order there has been reduction of the free-swimming, sexually mature medusa-phase to a sessile sac that still shows signs of varying amounts of meduoid organization – the view held by Kühn (1913). I hold the opinion that it is quite unrealistic to deduce all sessile sporosac- and other medusoid-gonophores from stages in the evolution of free-swimming medusae.

In 1946, Garstang pointed out that the actinula of the gymnoblastic hydroids is 'merely a planula with precocious adult character'; that it is 'provided with additional yolk so that it develops some at least of the future polyp tentacles as well as a mouth before its liberation' (p. 144). He went on to suggest that the original larva of the siphonophore ancestors was an actinula.* My own study of the larvae of representatives of all the major siphonophore groups has led me to endorse Garstang's work. Furthermore, as already stated on page 2, I think that the Siphonophora was only one of those groups which arose, during a comparatively recent radiation, after this new type of neotenic organism, the actinula (text-fig. 11), had been evolved from the larva of some proto-hydroid. This view was first put forward by me in 1960 as the Paedophore Hypothesis. It is, of course, axiomatic that forms alive to-day cannot be derived from one another, but only from precursors in the past, which unless they have survived as rare forms, are likely to have evolved into something different.

In my view, therefore, it is essential to bear in mind that the fully grown siphonophore oozooid is really an over-grown asexual polyp, which never itself takes on the adult hydrozoan form – the sexual medusa – but gives rise to it by budding. The reverse phenomenon is never seen in the Hydrozoa: a medusa never† truly gives rise by budding to a polyp, which always develops from an egg or from another polyp, thus demonstrating, in my view, the polyp's larval character. It is permissible to call both polyps and medusae 'zooids', but I retain the word polyp when I wish to stress the larval significance.

It is essential also to understand that the long axis of a fully grown physonect, even many metres long, carries at one end the original larval mouth of the oozooid (text-fig. 7D, p. 24), and its invaginated aboral float at the other. The word 'colony' is misleading when applied to the Siphonophora for it calls to mind the creeping, branching colonies of the hydroids.

[FOOTNOTE] * See pages 15–16 for a fuller discussion of Garstang's views.

[FOOTNOTE] † The only exception known to me came to light after writing this. Kramp published in Vidensk. Medd. dansk. naturh. Foren. Kbh., 124, 1962, p. 344; figures of a peculiar polypoid structure growing out of the stomach-wall of the limnomedusan Proboscidactyla ornata (McCrady).

[NOTE: "meduoid organization" is so printed (no "s"); transcribed as printed. A small stray ink mark sits over the colon in "in the Hydrozoa:" at the end of a line, and another speck between "(1871)" and "days".]

<<<PAGE pdf=37 file=page_037.txt>>>
[PAGE 32]
[RUNNING HEAD] 32	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

My own view of the course that hydrozoan evolution has probably taken may be briefly summarized as follows:

Stage 1.   Continuous metamorphosis: planula ——> polyp ——> medusa.
Stage 2.   Very simple fixed larval polyp giving rise by budding to a well developed medusa.
Stage 3.   Advanced (complex) fixed polyp-phase with a well developed medusa-phase.
Stage 4.   Larva of polyp as in 3 retained by the medusoid-stage instead of being shed as either an ovum or a planula, and becoming an actinula with reduction of the medusa-phase.
Stage 5.   Larva of this new type of polyp-phase adapted for permanent planktonic life (Siphonophora), medusa-phase reduced to gonophores.
Stage 6.   Larva of 3 becoming, contemporaneously with 4 still more advanced with further reduction of the medusa-phase.

This summary may be represented in the form of a diagram, the numbers referring to the above stages:

[FIGURE]
4	Corymorphines, Chondrophora,* etc.
1 ——> 2 ——> 3 ——> 6 ——> General hydroid stock with differential rates of evolution of polyp and medusa phases.
5 ——————————> Siphonophora.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the diagram above is unnumbered and has no printed caption. The arrows are drawn rules, here written "——>". Its printed layout is a branching scheme: "1 ——> 2 ——> 3", and from 3 three arrows diverge — upward to "4" (with "Corymorphines, Chondrophora,* etc." to its right), rightward to "6 ——> General hydroid stock with differential rates of evolution of polyp and medusa phases.", and downward to "5 ——————————> Siphonophora." Only the text printed on the page is transcribed.]

During the course of evolution it would appear that in the Siphonophora neoteny has played an important part, if we can apply this term to the attainment of sexual maturity by an animal while it is still in a larval stage.

With regard to the phylogenetic trends within the Order itself, in my opinion the Cystonectae and Physonectae are more closely allied to one another than to the more highly organized Calycophorae. Although they are divided into two sub-orders, cystonects and physonects appear to form a natural group A, while the calycophores by reason of their greater specialization fall into a second group B. The main differences between these two groups are as follows:

1.   In A there is a gas-filled float; in B none – it has probably been lost.
2.   In A the gonophores are budded from the bases of reduced gastrozooids (palpons); in B there are no reduced gastrozooids (except in Stephanophyes), unless they are represented by the bracts from which the gonophores are budded, bract and gonophore together forming a twin bud from the peduncle of the gastrozooids. In A, especially in the cystonect Physalia, there is repeated secondary budding from the foot-stalks of the gastrozooids, palpons and gonophores. In B the process is shortened up, though Moser (1925, Taf. VII, fig. 5) has shown that in Diphyes dispar there may be a series of at least five gonophores, each budding from the foot-stalk of its predecessor. Chun (1892, p. 66, fig. 1) has figured the same origin for bract and gonophore in Muggiaea kochi. In the Hippopodiidae the process is shortened up still further and the bract is eliminated, leaving a group of half-a-dozen gonophores budding from the peduncle of the gastrozooid, as shown by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 15, fig. 8).

[FOOTNOTE] * The Reviewer in Nature (190, 1961) of my 1960 paper on Physalia expressed surprise that I had not mentioned in my discussion of siphonophore phylogeny Picard's views on the phylogeny of the Chondrophora. This was an irrelevant issue to introduce into a review of a siphonophore paper because Chondrophora are not Siphonophora. Nor is this the place to state why, in any case, I cannot accept Picard's view. The Reviewer is mistaken in thinking that I hold that siphonophores have evolved from capitate hydroids.

<<<PAGE pdf=38 file=page_038.txt>>>
[PAGE 33]
[RUNNING HEAD] PARASITES : TERMINOLOGY	33

3.   In A there are numerous bracts, possibly homologous with palpons, but no one bract appears to be specially associated with a gonophore. In B there is only a single bract in each stem-group, surrounding the base of the gastrozooid and gonophores.
4.   In A the cormidia as a rule do not separate from the terminal part of the stem, except perhaps in Apolemia. In B the stem-groups do separate except in the Hippopodiidae and are set free as eudoxids.
5.   In A the individual gonophores are numerous, somewhat reduced and perhaps do not always separate from the cormidia. In B they are fully formed functional medusoids, which break away from the freed stem-groups, the eudoxids, when the eggs and sperms are ripening, and lead a free existence as sexually mature adults.

To sum up: in Cystonectae and Physonectae reduction has taken place in the medusoid-bearing secondary larvae (palpons) and in the adult medusoids (gonophores); also the cormidia do not separate but remain as the stem or middle part of the nurse-carrier; and lastly the stem bracts have multiplied. In the Calycophorae the float has disappeared; none of the gastrozooids as a rule are reduced (unless the bract is such a person), but each in turn breaks away with a single bract and functional medusoids (gonophores), which in their turn become detached from the stem-groups to lead a free sexually adult life.

All this indicates that there have been, so to speak, many changes of tack in the course of phylogeny, and it is exceedingly difficult to try to reconstruct the course. It would seem that the failure to separate on the part of the cormidia in Cystonectae and Physonectae is a secondary condition, which has led to permanent stem-formation with increase in the number of stem-bracts and reduction of gastrozooids to form a new type of polyp (essentially in the larval phase), the Palpon, which bears the adults, the Gonophores; whereas in the Calycophorae the gonophores are borne on the bases of unreduced gastrozooids. If the bract is interpreted as a former palpon, and gonophore and palpon as arising as a twin bud, this difference would not be fundamental, because both bract and palpon can be regarded as reduced gastrozooids.

PARASITES

Parasites of two groups – trematodes and dinoflagellates – are known to infest calycophore siphonophores. There is also an amphipod parasite.

I have described (1954) how a specimen of Hippopodius hippopus taken at Villefranche bore fifty trichocercous cercariae (with eyes), probably the larval stage (Cercaria setifera Monticelli) of the trematode Lepocraedium album Stossich. They made tubular tunnels into the mesogloea and lost their tails.

Of the second group, Rose & Cachon (1951) described the infestation of siphonophores by an interesting peridinian. In 1953 Cachon described the life-cycle of this animal, Diplomorpha paradoxa Rose & Cachon. Dr. Cachon has a great deal of unpublished information on these parasites.

TERMINOLOGY

The Siphonophora exhibit the highest degree of polymorphism of all the Hydrozoa. Both polypoid and medusoid persons occur, but none of them correspond fully to the typical hydroid forms. Both polypoid and medusoid persons are budded from the oozooid, which is the larval form developed from the fertilized egg.

[NOTE: in numbered paragraph 3 the capital "B" of "In B there" carries a heavy ink blot overprinting it, and the word space between "B" and "there" has closed up in the printing; read here as "In B there".]

<<<PAGE pdf=39 file=page_039.txt>>>
[PAGE 34]
[RUNNING HEAD] 34	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

A.   Oozooid consists primarily of:
1.   Protozooid – primary, terminal gastrozooid. This is the term usually applied to the gastrozooid at the oral end of the juvenile siphonophore, and in the mature cystonect and physonect.
2.   Pneumatophore or Float – when present, it forms the invaginated, aboral organ, with an outer wall, the pneumatocodon and an inner wall, the pneumatosaccus, pneumatocyst or air-sac, which contains the gas-gland. The apex of the pneumatophore is either closed, or guarded by a sphincter muscle. A baso-lateral pore may be present, e.g. Physophora, Rhodaliidae.
3.   Stem – the budding zone of the proximal part of the protozooid from which arise the polyps and medusoids. It can be in two parts, generally on opposite sides of the float – the nectosome (which may be very short, e.g. Diphyidae) from which are budded the nectophores; and the siphosome, from which are budded the gastrozooids, palpons, bracts and gonophores.

As development proceeds, the following polypoid and medusoid persons are budded from the oozooid, or from secondary polyps:

B.   Secondary polyps – larval forms.
1.   Gastrozooids (Siphons) – feeding polyps with only a single tentacle arising from the base of the gastrozooid. The tentacle is long, contractile with (except in Apolemia) lateral branches, or tentilla, each forming a sub-terminal battery of nematocysts. The base of the gastrozooid is enlarged into a nematocyst producing area, the basigaster.
2.   Palpons (feelers, tasters) – reduced gastrozooids with a simple tentacle, a palpacle.
3.   Gonozooids, Gonopalpons – gastrozooids or reduced gastrozooids associated with a gonodendron, but with no tentacle. Rather an imprecise category.
4.   Bracts – perhaps modified palpons with enlarged mesogloea, for protection and buoyancy.
5.   Gonodendron – a complex, derived by budding from an original palpon, of other palpons, gonophores and sometimes (e.g. Cystonectae) asexual nectophores.
C.   Medusoids – the real adults.
6.   Gonophores – small male or female medusae, functional or reduced, without tentacles; codonid-like, or styloid.
7.   Nectophores (nectocalyces) – swimming-bells, asexual medusoids; sometimes reduced to
8.   'Jelly-polyps' – vestigial nectophores, found only in Physalia.

There remain some terms relating to the Siphonophora which it may be useful to define more fully.

1.   Pneumatophore or Float and associated parts.
i.   Pneumatocodon (Luftschirm) – the outer three-layered wall of the invaginated float.
ii.   Pericystic cavity – the space between the pneumatocodon and the pneumatocyst, often traversed by septa.
iii.   Pneumatocyst, Pneumatosaccus (Luftflasche, Luftsac) – the three-layered, invaginated gas-containing part of the float, lined above by chitin, and below by secondary ectoderm that grows up from the gas-gland and lies over the chitinous lining.
iv.   Pneumadenia – the three-layered gas-gland of the invaginated pneumatocyst – a specialized part of the wall of the pneumatosaccus.
v.   Pneumatochone (air-funnel, Lufttrichte) – the basal cylindrical part of the chitinous lining of the pneumatosaccus, with the enclosed part of the pneumadenia.
vi.   Hypocystic villi – outgrowths containing giant ectodermal cells, said to have a diameter of up to 2 mm, arising from the pneumadenia and often penetrating the septa that cross the pericystic cavity.

[NOTE: the numbered list under B runs 1–5 and then continues 6–8 under heading C, as printed. Item 7 ends "sometimes reduced to" with no terminal punctuation, running on into item 8 on the next line; so printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=40 file=page_040.txt>>>
[PAGE 35]
[RUNNING HEAD] TERMINOLOGY	35

2.   Nematocysts and associated stinging apparatus.
i.   Tentillum – a side branch of a tentacle; either simple, or branched, e.g. in some cystonects; or consisting of a pedicel, involucrum (when present) and either a spirally twisted (unicornuate) cnidoband, a tricornuate body with a pair or more of lateral horns with or without a median terminal vehicle, e.g. in Agalmidae; or a closed sacculus containing elastic bands, cnidoband and other nematocysts, together with a terminal filament often provided with a disc-shaped sinker.
ii.   Involucrum – a fold round the base, or the whole, of a tentillum.
iii.   Cnidoband (Cnidotaenia, urticating band, Nesselband) – rows of sabre-shaped nematocysts forming the chief part of most stinging organs. It is often flanked basally by two rows of larger, bean- or sabre-shaped nematocysts.
iv.   Cnidosac, Cnidobattery (Sacculus, Nesselknopf, Bouton urticant) – pedicellate type of enclosed stinging organ formed by the tentilla of the Calycophorae.
v   Angle-bands (Elastische Bände) – extensile structureless filaments connecting the basal mesogloea of the cnidosac with the base of the terminal filament. On activation (? by hydrolysis) they cause the folded cnidoband to straighten and slap itself with its larger flanking nematocysts on to its prey.

3.   Nectophores and associated structures.
i.   Nectosac – the sub-umbrella cavity of a medusoid.
ii.   Ostium – the velar end of a nectophore.
iii.   Hydroecium – the hydroecial cavity (when present) in the nectophores of Calycophorae for housing the retracted stem with its associated structures. It lies on the ventral side.
iv.   Somatocyst – a caecal part of the common gastric cavity found in calycophoran nectophores. It is now thought to be a vestige of an original actinuloid tentacle (or bract) which has united with the nectophore. It may branch, e.g. in Praya spp.
v.   Canal System of nectophores and gonophores.
Pedicular canal – arises from the point of origin in the stem.
Radial canals – four meridional canals running from the pedicular to the circular canal.
Circular canal – uniting the distal ends of the radial canals.
Mantle canal (Mantelgefäss) – upper and lower diverticula of the pedicular canal at the point of entry into a nectophore or gonophore, e.g. in Rosacea spp. The muscular pedicular lamella is attached to its proximal wall. Very occasionally it lies embedded farther within the mesogloea of an agalmid nectophore. (See text-fig. 56, p. 104 of young nectophore of Forskalia leuckarti.)
Pallial canal – sometimes used for Mantle canal of a nectophore, sometimes for an apical part of it – thought to be homologous with the somatocyst.

Other terms used in this work are:

1.   Peduncle, Pedicel – interchangeable terms used for the foot-stalk of attachment of gastrozooids, palpons, nectophores and gonophores. The pedicel of a nectosac is the apical canal from which arise the four radial canals.
2.   Phyllocyst, Bracteal canal – part of the common gastric cavity occluded in some mature bracts.
3.   Central Organ – of uncertain origin. The central part of a larva of Hippopodiidae and Prayidae. Also the remains of the fragment of stem in an eudoxid, e.g. Prayidae.
4.   Nectostyle – area of attachment of larval type bracts of Physonectae, e.g. in Athorybia, and subsequent budding zone of the siphosome.

[NOTE: printed parenthetical query "(? by hydrolysis)" in item v of section 2 uses round brackets, not square; it is the author's own. In this copy the word "hydrolysis" inside that parenthesis is struck through by a single heavy horizontal ink line (a deletion mark on the page, not type); the word is still legible and is transcribed. Item v of section 2 is printed "v" with no full stop, unlike i–iv; so printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=41 file=page_041.txt>>>
[PAGE 36]
[RUNNING HEAD] 36	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

CLASSIFICATION

Classification of the Siphonophora is based not on the sexual, adult medusoids but on the asexual, larval nurse-carriers. In the Hydroida, a dual classification has been made in the past.

My views upon the probable course of evolution of siphonophores into three sub-orders, Cystonectae, Physonectae and Calycophorae, have been expressed on pages 32–33. These sub-orders with their general characteristics will be treated in this sequence, one which appears to show generally increasing complexity, although it must be borne in mind that there may be secondary simplification inside a group, following such events as the appearance of a neotenic form, as for example in the physonect, Athorybia.

ORDER SIPHONOPHORA

[TABLE]
	Page
Sub-order I	Cystonectae	39
	Family 1.  Physaliidae	39
	Physalia physalis (L)	39
	Family 2.  Rhizophysidae	40
	Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål)	41
	R. eysenhardti Gegenbaur	42
	Bathyphysa conifera (Studer)	43
	B. japonica Kawamura	44
	B. sibogae Lens & van Riemsdijk	43
	Cystonectae: spp. inquirendae	43

Sub-order II	Physonectae	44
	Family 3.  Apolemiidae	45
	Apolemia uvaria Lesueur	45
	Family 4.  Agalmidae	51
	Agalma okeni Eschscholtz	53
	A. haeckeli Bigelow	53
	A. clausi Bedot	53
	A. elegans (Sars)	54
	Halistemma rubrum (Vogt)	56
	H. cupulifera Lens & van Riemsdijk	58
	H. striata sp.n.	59
	? H. amphitrÿdis (Lesueur & Petit)	60
	Cordagalma cordiformis Totton	61
	Marrus antarcticus Totton	62
	M. orthocanna (Kramp)	65
	M. orthocannoides Totton	63
	*Moseria convoluta (Moser)	66
	Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)	68
	N. cara A. Agassiz	72
	Lychnagalma utricularia (Claus)	73
	L. vesicularia Haeckel	73
	Erenna richardi Bedot	74
	Family 5.  Pyrostephidae	76
	Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser	76
	Bargmannia elongata Totton	82
[/TABLE]

[FOOTNOTE] * This new genus Moseria is defined on page 66.

[NOTE: the contents list is set with leader dots between each name and its page number; the leaders are omitted here and a single tab used instead. Indentation levels in the original are: sub-order flush left, "Family n." indented, species names indented further. The species epithet in "? H. amphitrÿdis" is printed with a diaeresis over the y. A short pencil or ink tick appears in the right-hand margin beside the "? H. amphitrÿdis ... 60" line.]

<<<PAGE pdf=42 file=page_042.txt>>>
[PAGE 37]
[RUNNING HEAD] CLASSIFICATION: ORDER SIPHONOPHORA	37

[TABLE]
		Page
Sub-order II	Physonectae cont.
	Family 6.  Physophoridae	83
	Physophora hydrostatica Forskål	83
	Family 7.  Athorybiidae	86
	Athorybia rosacea (Forskål)	87
	Melophysa melo (Quoy & Gaimard)	89
	Family 8.  Rhodaliidae	91
	Rhodalia miranda Haeckel	92
	Stephalia corona Haeckel	92
	Angelopsis globosa Fewkes	95
	A. dilata Bigelow	95
	Archangelopsis typica Lens & van Riemskijk	96
	Dromalia alexandri Bigelow	96
	Family 9.  Forskaliidae	96
	Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker	100
	F. leuckarti Bedot	102
	F. formosa Kefferstein & Ehlers	108
	F. tholoides Haeckel	108
	F. cuneata Chun	109
	F. misakiensis Kawamura, sp. inquirenda	109

Sub-order III	Calycophorae	110
	Family 10.  Prayidae	110
	Sub-family i.  Amphicaryoninae	111
	Amphicaryon peltifera (Haeckel)	112
	A. acaule Chun	112
	A. ernesti Totton	113
	Maresearsia praeclara Totton	113
	Sub-family ii.  Prayinae	114
	Rosacea plicata Quoy & Gaimard	116
	R. cymbiformis (Chiaje)	118
	Praya dubia (Quoy & Gaimard)	122
	P. reticulata (Bigelow)	123
	Prayoides intermedia Leloup	125
	Lilyopsis rosea Chun	126
	L. gracilis (Fewkes)	127
	Desmophyes annectens Haeckel	128
	Stephanophyes superba Chun	129
	Sub-family iii.  Nectopyramidinae	130
	Nectopyramis diomedéae Bigelow	131
	N. thetis Bigelow	135
	N. natans (Bigelow)	135
	N. spinosa Sears	137
	Family 11.  Hippopodiidae	138
	Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål)	139
	Vogtia spinosa Kefferstein & Ehlers	140
	V. pentacantha Kölliker	142
	V. serrata (Moser)	142
	V. glabra Bigelow	142
	Family 12.  Diphyidae	142
	Sub-family i.  Sulculeolariinae	143
	Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville	143
	S. biloba (Sars)	145
	S. turgida (Gegenbaur)	149
	S. angusta Totton	149
	S. chuni (Lens & van Riemsdijk)	150
	S. monoica (Chun)	152
	S. bigelowi (Sears)	152
	Sub-family ii.  Diphyinae	152
	Diphyes dispar Chamisso & Eysenhardt	153
	D. bojani (Eschscholtz)	155
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: contents list continued from the previous page; leader dots between each name and its page number are omitted here and a single tab substituted. "Archangelopsis typica Lens & van Riemskijk" is so printed, with "Riemskijk", whereas the same authors are printed "Riemsdijk" in the other entries on this page; transcribed as printed. "Nectopyramis diomedéae" is printed with an acute accent on the first e. A short pencil or ink tick appears in the right-hand margin beside the "Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål) ... 139" line.]

<<<PAGE pdf=43 file=page_043.txt>>>
[PAGE 38]
[RUNNING HEAD] 38	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[TABLE]
		Page
Sub-order III	Calycophorae cont.
	Family 12.  Diphyidae cont.
	Sub-family ii.  Diphyinae cont.
	D. chamissonis Huxley	156
	D. antarctica Moser	157
	Lensia subtiloides (Lens & van Riemsdijk)	159
	L. leloupi Totton	161
	L. conoidea (Kefferstein & Ehlers)	162
	L. multicristata (Moser)	164
	L. hunter Totton	164
	L. campanella (Moser)	165
	L. cossack Totton	166
	L. challengeri Totton	166
	L. hotspur Totton	167
	L. tottoni Daniel & Daniel	168
	L. subtilis (Chun)	168
	L. subtilis var. chuni nom. nov.	170
	L. meteori (Leloup)	170
	L. achilles Totton	171
	L. lelouveteau Totton	172
	L. reticulata Totton	172
	L. hardy Totton	173
	L. fowleri (Bigelow)	174
	L. havock Totton	175
	L. exeter Totton	176
	L. hostile Totton	177
	L. grimaldi (Leloup)	178
	L. ajax Totton	179
	Muggiaea kochi (Will)	180
	M. atlantica Cunningham	181
	M. bargmannae Totton	183
	M. delsmani Totton	183
	Dimophyes arctica (Chun)	184
	Chelophyes appendiculata (Eschscholtz)	185
	C. contorta (Lens & van Riemsdijk)	187
	Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley)	188
	E. spiralis (Bigelow)	189
	Eudoxia macra Totton	191
	Family 13.  Clausophyidae fam. n.	192
	Clausophyes ovata (Kefferstein & Ehlers)	193
	C. galeata Lens & van Riemsdijk	194
	Chuniphyes multidentata Lens & van Riemsdijk	194
	Ch. moserae Totton	196
	Crystallophyes amygdalina Moser	197
	Heteropyramis maculata Moser	199
	Thalassophyes crystallina Moser	201
	Family 14.  Sphaeronectidae	201
	Sphaeronectes gracilis (Claus)	202
	S. irregularis (Claus)	203
	Family 15.  Abylidae	204
	Sub-family i.  Abylinae	204
	Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley)	205
	C. sagittata (Quoy & Gaimard)	206
	C. intermedia Sears	206
	C. dentata (Bigelow)	207
	Abyla trigona Quoy & Gaimard	208
	A. carina Haeckel	210
	A. haeckeli Lens & van Riemsdijk	210
	A. ingeborgae Sears	211
	A. bicarinata Moser	211
	A. schmidti Sears	212
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: contents list continued; leader dots between each name and its page number are omitted here and a single tab substituted.]

<<<PAGE pdf=44 file=page_044.txt>>>
[PAGE 39]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY I PHYSALIIDAE	39

[TABLE]
		Page
Sub-order III	Calycophorae cont.
	Family 15.  Abylidae cont.
	Sub-family i.  Abylinae	216
	A. tottoni Sears	214
	A. peruana Sears	215
	Sub-family ii. Abylopsinae
	Abylopsis tetragona (Otto)	216
	A. eschscholtzi (Huxley)	218
	Bassia bassensis (Quoy & Gaimard)	219
	Enneagonum hyalinum (Quoy & Gaimard)	221
[/TABLE]

SYSTEMATIC SECTION

Sub-order I: Cystonectae Haeckel, 1887

Pneumatophoridae Chun, 1882

Siphonophores with a budding zone (siphosomal) on only one side of the base of the aboral float. There are no bracts. The tentacles are generally simple, and the cnidoblasts are not concentrated in batteries on the side branches, when these are developed.

There are only five cystonect species currently recognized, so that to review all that has been written on their division into sub-orders, families, sub-families and genera appears to be unimportant. Recent treatment of siphonophores by systematists like Lens & van Riemsdijk, Bigelow, Moser and Leloup have none of them included diagnoses of families and genera.

Two families are recognized to-day: the Physaliidae with a horizontal float, and the Rhizophysidae with an apical, vertical float. Haeckel's family Epibulidae is problematic (see p. 44).

The monotypic genus Physalia is obviously distinguishable by its large float or pneumatophore from the remaining four species, which have been divided into two genera of two species each, Rhizophysa and Bathyphysa. The criterion for distinguishing between these two is that in Bathyphysa spp. the young gastrozooids have lateral wings or ptera – they disappear in later growth stages – while in Rhizophysa spp. there are no ptera.

Family 1: PHYSALIIDAE

Physalia physalis (L) 1758
Plate I, figure 1

The genus Physalia is monotypic and has been given a lengthy morphological treatment in Volume XXX of the Discovery Reports (Totton, 1960).

The oozooid develops as usual in Siphonophores into an asexual nurse-carrier, up to about one foot in length, with an anterior mouth at one end and the apical pore of the pneumatocyst at the other.

The larva at first swims below the surface, where it has been taken in tow-nets, but when about a millimetre in length it surfaces with the single tentacle of the protozooid (gastrozooid) either to one side or the other of its now horizontal body (hence the enantiomorphism). Thus two mirror-images are found, right-handed or left-handed Physalia. From this time onwards the gas-gland comes to lie asymmetrically on the lower side of the pneumatocyst, and outpocketings from the upper side begin to develop into finger-like processes that erect the crest.

[NOTE: the contents list at the head of the page is continued from p. 38; leader dots are omitted and a single tab substituted. "Sub-family i.  Abylinae" carries the page number 216 while the two species entries beneath it are 214 and 215; so printed. "Sub-family ii. Abylopsinae" has no page number against it. In this typeface the old-style arabic figure 1 and the small roman numeral I are the same glyph (a short serifed stem), so "Sub-order I:" and "Family 1:" are typographically indistinguishable on the page; they are transcribed here as roman I and arabic 1 respectively, on the evidence of "Sub-order II:" on p. 44 (PDF p. 49) and "Family 2:" on p. 40 (PDF p. 45).]

<<<PAGE pdf=45 file=page_045.txt>>>
[PAGE 40]
[RUNNING HEAD] 40	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

The apical pore end, the posterior half of the animal, is free of secondary buds, which are developed in two anterior zones, main and oral, with a slight gap between. The secondary buds form cormidial groups (text-fig. 5) usually seven groups in each zone, which arise on the same side as the tentacle of the protozooid. Of these secondary buds the first to appear are the gastrozooids; each gastrozooid usually comes to be associated with a tentacle and a gonodendron, but Physalia differs from most siphonophores in that the tentacle becomes separated from its basigaster in later growth stages. The need for very numerous nematocysts in dealing with the fishes on which the animal feeds has led to much enlarged seats for their development, the basigasters (text-fig. 1 amp).

Budding is very profuse and new gastrozooids are budded off from the bases of their predecessors, together with further gonodendra, but in the course of successive buddings, the gastrozooids gradually change into tentacle-less palpons. At the bases of the terminal palpons are developed the very much reduced medusoid gonophores. One gonophore of each terminal branchlet becomes an asexual nectophore; another, the so-called 'jelly-polyp', appears to be a vestigeal nectophore (text-fig. 6). The functional gonophores of each Physalia are of one sex only. Early developmental stages of the larva are unknown.

In young growth stages up to about two millimetres in length, the float-length is almost half the whole. In the oldest stages the protozooid appears as a small appendage of the enormously enlarged float. At this late stage the long axis of the whole lies horizontally at the surface of the sea. When the animal is being drifted along, at an angle of about 45° right or left of the down-wind direction, the tentacles lie near the surface and are extended perhaps to seventy times their contracted length.

Family 2: RHIZOPHYSIDAE Brandt, 1835

Rhizophysiadae Huxley, 1859

The history of the literature of the sub-order Rhizophysaliae Chun, 1882, of the family – originally sub-family – Rhizophysidae and sub-families Rhizophysinae, Epibuliinae and Bathyphysinae has been dealt with by Bigelow (1911b).

It seems to me that if there are such animals as Epibuliinae (Epibulia ritteriana Hkl., 1888b) they could not be included in the Rhizophysidae because of the alleged possession of a ring of palpons below the float. I am inclined to suggest that the description of this animal by Haeckel was based on a misconception of a specimen of Athorybia rosacea, and that Haeckel's figure is unrealistic and idealized, though beautifully executed. If such animals exist no doubt one will be found again.

None of the Rhizophysidae commonly come into the hands of systematists, though the hands of fishermen suffer from their stings, since their tentacles often adhere to cordage and nets by their nematocysts. No doubt these animals are abundant in deep water. One species in particular, Bathyphysa conifera, is frequently found adhering to the hemp of the grappling lines used by cable-ships. Some special fishing device is probably needed to catch them for study, because specimens are naturally damaged when grappling lines and dredge-wires to which they may have adhered are taken inboard over a sheave.

It is more knowledge of actual specimens that is needed rather than further discussion of the literature.

Genus:   RHIZOPHYSA Péron & Lesueur, 1807

Distinguished from Bathyphysa by the absence of ptera on the walls of the gastrozooids in all growth-stages.

Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) gave an account of the history of this genus and Bigelow (1911b)

[NOTE: "(text-fig. 1 amp)" is so printed, with the italic abbreviation "amp" after the figure number. In the heading "Family 2:" the character before the colon is an old-style arabic numeral 2.]

<<<PAGE pdf=46 file=page_046.txt>>>
[PAGE 41]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 2 RHIZOPHYSIDAE	41

another. Morphology, particularly that of the gas-secreting apparatus, was discussed by Schneider (1898), who gave the following generic diagnosis: 'Cystonects with long, fine stems, whose gastrozooids have no lateral wings or ptera.' The rest of his diagnosis was applicable to all cystonects.

Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål, 1775)
Plate I, figure 2; Plates II, III and IV

Physsophora filiformis Forskål, 1775
Rhizophysa gracilis Fewkes, 1882b
Cannophysa murrayana Haeckel, 1888b
Cannophysa eysenhardti Mayer, 1894
?Cannophysa filiformis Mayer, 1894
Rhizophysa filiformis Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

This species was described and figured by Gegenbaur (1853a, b) from specimens up to one and a quarter feet in length taken at Messina. Fewkes (1883) recorded one from Bermuda that measured over three feet in length. Fewkes (1879) examined three specimens taken at Villefranche, and gave a good figure of a whole specimen. He also figured developmental stages of the tentilla and gonodendra. Small specimens 2–4 cm in length with 4–6 cormidia often occur in spring off Algiers in hauls from about 400 m.* These animals sting sharply.

Apical pneumatophore:   12 mm long, 6 mm diameter (Chun, 1897b), very muscular. No septa surrounding it, but very obvious hypocystic villi containing giant gas-gland cells (Pl. II, fig. 2), each from 1·5–2 mm in length are present in the secondary ectoderm. Chun measured their nuclei as being from 0·25–0·27 mm in diameter. A cap of red pigment round the apical pore.

Gastrozooid:   The colour of living specimens at Villefranche was pale green. They are 1–1½ inches apart with a tentacle at the upper side of the base. Tentilla of three types: (a) the most abundant form, the tricornuate. There is a hitherto undescribed web connecting each lateral branch to the central one (see Pl. IV, fig. 2). Ten or twelve tricornuate tentilla separate two of the next type (b) the dendritic or palmate, a developmental series of seventeen or more of which can be followed back on a single tentacle. Previous descriptions have not indicated the extent to which branchlets of the dendritic tentilla can expand (see Pl. IV, fig. 6). At one side of the distal end of the enlarged body of the dendritic tentillum, between the bases of the branches, is a hemispherical pigmented boss, reddish-brown in colour and covered with hair-like processes, resembling those that cover the ectoderm of the whole tentacle and the pedicels of all the tentilla. At the other side is an extensive opaque area of the ectoderm (c). The third type, known as the bird-headed or beaked tentillum (see Pl. IV, fig. 4) bears a bunch of rather longer processes with central enlargements, resembling those of the tentilla of the larval tentacle of Agalma elegans. I have seen as many as twenty-one tentilla of this type on a single tentacle of a young, 8 cm. long specimen. The tentacle bore five developed palmate and thirty-eight trifid ones. In five cases there were two successive tentilla of the bird-beaked type. The palmate tentilla did not expand in magnesium chloride as much as those of tentacles of larger specimens, and both the palmate and trifid tentilla bore areas of a light pink colour.

Gonodendron:   Kawamura (1910) stated that as distinct from Rhizophysa eysenhardti the gonodendron is attached directly to the underside of the gastrozooid and not isolated between two. I find that this is not so. Developed as subsequently elongating ovoid buds from the stem, halfway between two gastrozooids, the gonodendra give rise to about two dozen branches, each terminating in a palpon and a sub-terminal nectophore (Pl. II, fig. 3; Pl. III, fig. 4). There is no sub-terminal branchlet as in Physalia. There are half-a-dozen or so gonophores around each of the nectophores. It seems probable that the (reduced) jelly-polyp and its accompanying palpon in Physalia are homologous

[FOOTNOTE] * Personal communication from Dr. J. Cachon.

4

[NOTE: the bare "4" on the last line is a printer's signature mark at the foot of the page, not a folio. "1½" is printed as a stacked fraction. The query mark in "?Cannophysa filiformis Mayer, 1894" is the author's own, printed immediately before the genus name with no space.]

<<<PAGE pdf=47 file=page_047.txt>>>
[PAGE 42]
[RUNNING HEAD] 42	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

with the nectophore and palpon in Rhizophysa. The finer structure and behaviour of the mature gonodendra in the two cystonects is remarkably similar. It is not known whether each specimen is unisexual as in Physalia.

Habits.   In captivity in a tank specimens live for several days. They take up a vertical position with the pneumatophore at the surface. There is constant and repeated contraction of the stem which pulls down the pneumatophore and pulls up the lower end, followed by relaxation to a pendent position. The tentacles frequently shorten up too. This habit is reminiscent of Physalia.

Gegenbaur (1853, p. 325) described fully extended specimens peacefully drifting and writhing about at the surface of a calm sea. The elongated gastrozooids were actively searching for prey, while the tentacles sank into the depths like long fishing lines.

Rhizophysa eysenhardti Gegenbaur, 1859
Plate I, figures 3, 3a; Plate V, figure 1; Plate VII

Rhizophysa eysenhardtii Gegenbauer, 1859
Rhizophysa filiformis Huxley, 1859 (non Gbr); Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
?Rhizophysa inermis Studer, 1878
Rhizophysa eysenhardtii Fewkes, 1883; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Nectophysa wyvillei Haeckel, 1888b; Agassiz & Mayer, 1902

Distinguished from R. filiformis by the possession of filiform tentilla (Pl. I, fig. 3a). Up to 50 cm long in formalin.

Pneumatophore:   Up to 18 mm long, 11 mm diameter (in formalin), pale pink in colour like the stem, with a very deep red patch of pigment round the apical pore.

Stem:   Several metres long when expanded (Kawamura, 1910) contracting to 30 cm; diameter 0·5–1·5 mm.

Gastrozooid:   Half an inch long with short endodermal villi, pedicellate. Tentacle an inch long in contraction, extending to two or three inches, like a slender thread. Unilateral tentilla extending to half an inch. Spheroidal nematocysts 0·084 mm in diameter. Colour of tentilla claret or colourless.

Gonodendron:   On the thread-like pedicels 1·5 cm long; side branches each with a single palpon, and asexual nectophore and several gonophores. Colour:   Golden, pale reddish brown (Kawamura, 1954).

Genus:   BATHYPHYSA Studer, 1878

A monotypic genus for B. abyssorum Studer, 1878.

Distinguished from Rhizophysa by the presence of ptera on the walls of the gastrozooids in early growth-stages, and absence of hypocystic villi.

Leloup (1936) made a thorough review after examination of type specimens of the various species. His conclusion, with which I agree, was that there are only two species, B. sibogae, L. & v. R., with characteristic tentilla on the tentacles and B. conifera (Studer) without tentilla.

The most likely method of obtaining bathyphysan material is through the services of the staff of a cable-ship. Specimens adhere to the hemp of the grappling wires. As the wire comes up over the bow-sheave fragments are scattered on the deck.

[NOTE: the species heading is printed "Rhizophysa eysenhardti Gegenbaur, 1859" while the first synonymy line beneath it is printed "Rhizophysa eysenhardtii Gegenbauer, 1859" — differing in both the epithet and the author's name; both transcribed as printed. The query mark in "?Rhizophysa inermis Studer, 1878" is the author's own, printed immediately before the genus name with no space.]

<<<PAGE pdf=48 file=page_048.txt>>>
[PAGE 43]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 2 RHIZOPHYSIDAE	43

Bathyphysa conifera (Studer, 1878)
Plate V, figure 3; Plate VI, figures 1–4

Rhizophysa conifera Studer, 1878
B. abyssorum Studer, 1878
Pterophysa grandis Fewkes, 1884
B. grimaldii Bedot, 1893a; Kawamura, 1954
Pterophysa (Bathyphysa) studeri Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Pterophysa grandis Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

Stem:   Measured length of 3·7 m (in formalin: Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908). The elongated cylindrical pneumatophore may measure 2 cm long and 0·5 cm diameter.

Gastrozooid:   The secondary gastrozooids, each bearing a simple, tubular tentacle in the later but not earlier growth stages, are budded from a region close to the pneumatophore. In early growth-stages the sessile gastrozooids bear two longitudinal ridges or ptera. Later on these disappear.

Gonodendron:   Associated with each gastrozooid is a gonodendron of cystonect type with palpons, gonophores and asexual nectophores. In early stages of growth the gonodendron is sessile and globular. In later stages it becomes pedunculate and elongated. Parts of it break away when mature, but few details are known of its structure and breakdown. The various growth-stages were illustrated by Leloup (1936, Pl. I, fig. 6).

B. conifera differs from the only other well-known species B. sibogae in having simple tentacles. It was beautifully illustrated by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908, Pl. XIX) – as Pterophysa grandis.

Beautifully preserved gastrozooids and pieces of stem (Pl. VI, fig. 4) were collected by the method already described, in 1948 on board the cable-ship 'Monarch' working in depths of from 914 m to 4,489 m at the following localities: 01° 35'S, 31° 35'W, 914–2,743 m; 2° 40'S, 3° 05'W, 4,489 m; 20° 25'N, 21° 47'W, 4,189 m; 6° 19'N, 27° 23'W, 1,097 m.

Kawamura (1954) published some interesting observations and figures of preserved specimens which purported to show branches of the stem. My tentative interpretation is that these branches are gonodendra. The fact that they bear gastrozooids may perhaps be explained in the following way: Physonect gonodendra develop by successive budding of palpons from the bases of their predecessors. These palpons are reduced gastrozooids. In Bathyphysa gonodendra appear to develop from unreduced gastrozonoids, though there is a terminal gonopalpon on the ultimate branchlets.

Bathyphysa sibogae Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Plate V, figure 2

Only two specimens, the types of Lens & van Riemsdijk, are known, one 72 cm, and the other 10 cm in length. The pneumatophore of the longer one measured 9 mm × 4 mm. The hypocystic villi are small, and there is an apical pore. The gastrozooids, after fixation, measured up to 30 mm × 3 mm, and bear the usual two ptera or wings.

Gastrozooid:   There is no peduncle to the gastrozooid (Leloup, 1936). Gastrozooids up to 25 mm in length, one bearing tentacles 40 mm in length with tentilla. The tentilla terminate in a central, short filament and two lateral excrescences, not unlike those of the trifid type in Rhizophysa filiformis. They were figured by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908, Pl. XXIII).

Gonodendra borne on a peduncle resembling that of B. conifera.

Cystonectae : Species inquirendae

Under this heading I group the following: Bathyphysa japonica, Kawamura, 1943 and the family Epibuliidae, Haeckel, 1888.

[NOTE: "unreduced gastrozonoids" is so printed (for "gastrozooids"); transcribed as printed. Latitude/longitude minutes are printed with a prime, e.g. "35'S".]

<<<PAGE pdf=49 file=page_049.txt>>>
[PAGE 44]
[RUNNING HEAD] 44	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Bathyphysa japonica Kawamura, 1943
B. japonica, Kawamura, 1954, Plate VI, figure 3; Plate VII, figures 8, 9

Kawamura described 'stem branches' as in B. conifera (q.v.). I tentatively offer the same explanation as I gave for that species.

? EPIBULIDAE Haeckel, 1888
? EPIBULIINAE Bigelow, 1911
EPIBULIA Eschscholtz, 1829; non EPIBULIA Vogt, 1854 (= SULCULEOLARIA)

Rhizophysa chamissonis, Eysenhardt, 1821, one of the two species – the other was R. filiformis – for which Eschscholtz created the genus Epibulia, was chosen by Haeckel (1888b) as the type species. No specimens of this animal are known to be preserved. If there are such animals alive in the sea no doubt some will eventually be captured. Meanwhile all we have for basic consideration are the two crude figures, and a very poor latin description by Chamisso published by Eysenhardt (1821). On account of the presence of a ring of what look like palpons underneath the float it seems best to regard the animals, if they exist, as forming a quite separate family Epibulidae Haeckel.

Thus, Epibulia chamissonis (Eysenhardt, 1821) is a problematic animal-name. It might conceivably apply to a Bathyphysa species, the alleged palpons being really young gastrozooids. Eschscholtz cannot have had a very clear concept of 'Epibulia' since he seemed inclined to include in it a physophore Cupulita boodwich Q. & G., 'on account of its red tentacles'. The use of the same name Epibulia by Haeckel (1888b) for his E. ritteriana had not really any sound reasoning behind it. His figure and description will be dealt with under that name.

Epibulia chamissonis (Eysenhardt) 1821

Rhizophysa chamissonis Eysenhardt, 1821

A species inquirenda.   There is supposed to be a ring of palpons below the float. But it seems to be improbable that there is in existence an animal that would correspond with the poor description and figures, rather than with one that has been properly described under another name.

Epibulia ritteriana Haeckel, 1888

?Athorybia rosacea (Forskål) 1775

I am not satisfied of the existence of a siphonophore such as was figured by Haeckel. If it was indeed a cystonect it could hardly have a ring of palpons under the float. The description is incomplete and unconvincing. It seems possible that Haeckel had worked up notes and sketches of an incompletely examined specimen of Athorybia rosacea.

Sub-order II: Physonectae Haeckel, 1888

Siphonophores whose larvae develop a budding zone on either side of the base of the apical float or pneumatophore. (Forskalia is an exception in that the budding-zone and siphosome appear to be on one and the same side.) From one zone, the nectosome (absent in Athorybia) bud the nectophores which propel the whole animal. From the other, the siphosome, the stem develops as either a long stem or a relatively short globular structure. It carries the gastrozooids, palpons, bracts and gonophores (text-fig. 7).

[NOTE: the query marks before "EPIBULIDAE", "EPIBULIINAE" and "?Athorybia rosacea" are the author's own printed marks of doubt, not transcriber annotation; the first two are set off by a space, the third printed hard against the genus name.]

<<<PAGE pdf=50 file=page_050.txt>>>
[PAGE 45]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 3 APOLEMIIDAE	45

Seven families of physonects are recognized: Apolemiidae, Agalmidae, Pyrostephidae, Physophoridae, Athorybiidae, Rhodaliidae and Forskaliidae. The only new family since Bigelow's (1911b) 'Albatross' paper was published is the Pyrostephidae of Moser (1925).

Family 3: APOLEMIIDAE Huxley, 1859

Diagnosis:   A family with a single monotypic genus Apolemia. Physonects with a unique kind of tentacle (probably larval) in small tufts below each muscular attachment of the nectophores. Each gastrozooid bears a filiform tentacle.

APOLEMIA Eschscholtz, 1829

Monotypic genus for A. uvaria (Lesueur, ?1811).

Apolemia uvaria (Lesueur, ? 1811)
Plate VIII, text-figures 13–17

Agalma punctata Vogt, 1854
?Dicymba diphyopsis Haeckel, 1888b
For fuller synonymy see Bigelow, 1911b

HISTORICAL

This is one of the most interesting, most difficult to study and least understood of the Physonects.

Our first knowledge of it is due to Lesueur who took it with Péron when they were exploring the invertebrate marine fauna at Nice in 1809. Lesueur made a wonderful drawing of it which he partly engraved. After the death of Péron he published it in a rare work about 1811. This work bears a similar title to the better known two volumes of text edited by Péron, and, after his death, by Freycinct and the atlas of plates by Lesueur and Petit, published from 1807 to 1816. When Péron died he left his manuscripts to Lesueur, amongst them an almost completed Histoire compléte des Meduses (see p. 447 of vol. 2 of the Voyage). The work of (?)1811 published by Lesueur was probably based on this, but was meant to be only a beginning. He said (p. 4) 'l'histoire de chaque genre (des Radiaires molasses composés) et les descriptions des espèces . . . devant êtres consignées dans un assez long Mémoire, j'ai cru devoir me borner à publier pour le moment quelques exemplaires de la planche (Stéphanomies à grains de Raisin, (Uviformis) ) qui doit l'accompagner, avec cette courte description'.

This figure (Pl. VIII) has been referred to, often erroneously, and was copied in part by Blainville (1834, Pl. III). Kölliker (1853, p. 18) implied that an account of it had been published in the Journal de Physique for 1813. But I have found this suggestion to be erroneous. Volume 77 of that Journal for the latter half of 1813 carried a paper by Lesueur (p. 119) on some of the animals they took at Nice, but no description is made of any siphonophore, and there are no accompanying figures. Volume 76 of the same journal for the earlier half of 1813 carries no paper by Lesueur. Haeckel (1888b, p. 204) said 'Apolemia was first observed in the North Atlantic by Lesueur who in 1813 executed a large and excellent picture of it drawn and engraved by himself from life. He called it Stephanomia uviformis (not uvaria)'. Haeckel went on to say 'Eschscholtz observed the same animal in the Atlantic, and recognizing it in the unpublished (sic) plate of Lesueur founded upon it a new genus, Apolemia uvaria (1829, p. 143)'. Before mentioning how Haeckel then went on to cause confusion about the species it is necessary to state that Lesueur did publish the figure in a work, the only two copies of which I know (1) formed part of the Banksian Library, now in the British Museum Library; (2) is in the Library of the Musée d'Histoire naturelle in Paris. Haeckel caused confusion by stating (p. 205) that

[NOTE: printed query marks not in square brackets are the author's own: "(Lesueur, ?1811)" under the genus, "(Lesueur, ? 1811)" in the species heading, "?Dicymba diphyopsis" in the synonymy, and "(?)1811" in the text. "Histoire compléte des Meduses" is so printed, with an acute accent on the second e of "compléte". "Freycinct" and "Radiaires molasses composés" are as printed. The heading "HISTORICAL" is set in small capitals with a full-size initial H.]

<<<PAGE pdf=51 file=page_051.txt>>>
[PAGE 46]
[RUNNING HEAD] 46	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[NOTE: most of this page is set in two unequal columns – a narrow text column at the left and FIG. 13 with its caption occupying the right-hand column down almost to the foot. The last four lines of text run the full measure below the figure. Transcribed here as: left column, then the figure and caption, then the full-measure lines, then the footnote.]

Lesson copied the description of it (by Blainville) and named it Apolemia Lesueuria; and that he himself (Haeckel) obtained in 1878 at Paris, owing to the kindness of Professor Perrier, a copy of Lesueur's beautiful plate, and on comparing it with the Mediterranean Apolemia uvaria was convinced that these two forms were not identical as previous observers had supposed, but belonged to different species or even genera. By 'the Mediterranean Apolemia uvaria', Haeckel evidently meant the species as described by Kölliker, Vogt, Gegenbaur, Leuckart and Claus. But of course Lesueur's specimen too was taken in the Mediterranean, at Nice. Haeckel then submitted that what was virtually the type specimen from Nice differs from those taken by Vogt at Nice and by the others at Messina in various ways such as being monoecious, having no marked internodes and not being densely covered with innumerable bracts – which is nonsense. He then 'renamed' Lesueur's species Apolemia uvaria: Apolemopsis lesueuria.

Haeckel then referred to an apolemiid which Mertens observed and figured in the Caroline Islands, and which Brandt described in 1835 as Apolemopsis dubia. I have made several attempts to discover if this and other unpublished figures made by Mertens are still extant, but without success. Since the publication of the wonderful, partly engraved figure by Lesueur in (?) 1811, we have had accounts and figures by Eschscholtz (1829), an account by Risso (1826), accounts and figures by Costa (1836), Kölliker (1853), Leuckart (1853, 1854), Gegenbaur (1853), Vogt (1854) and Claus (1863) and the notes by Haeckel (1888). Since Haeckel's time there seems to have been no systematic work published on this interesting species except that of Iwantzoff (1896) on the nematocysts. We are still uncertain about some morphological details, especially about the brown palpons. I feel almost sure that Haeckel's (1888b) Dicymba diphyopsis is really the same animal.

Our detailed knowledge is derived almost entirely from a study of Mediterranean specimens. The pioneers who worked on living siphonophores all did so either at Messina or at Villefranche, where upwelling waters bring them up from the deeper water-masses. It is unfortunate for those who work at Villefranche, in particular, that these upwellings are so infrequent.* A prolonged stay there may be necessary if one wishes to see this species.

Since Apolemia uvaria may reach, vide Prof. A. Trégouboff (1957), a length of 20 metres or more and because only a part of such a specimen can be caught by the method hitherto adopted, namely by engulfing the specimen in a large glass vessel dipped under the surface, it seems probable that the part most likely to be taken in this way is the forward end carrying the float and

[FIGURE]
FIG. 13.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur
Whole animal, nat. size (after Gegenbaur, 1853b, from Totton & Fraser, 1955, fig. 3).
[/FIGURE]

nectocalyces. But it is just in this anterior region that the gonophores are not well developed. It is to be hoped that future collectors especially aqualung divers, will take the hindmost part where the gonophores are likely to be ripe. We know nothing about the larvae, which should be very interesting.

[FOOTNOTE] * Halim, Y., 1959: Vie et Milieu IX, fasc. 3, 1958, 278.

<<<PAGE pdf=52 file=page_052.txt>>>
[PAGE 47]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 3 APOLEMIIDAE	47

Indeed, if the gonophores (adults) were better known it might be possible to fertilize eggs and obtain larvae in the laboratory. The appendages are all budded from the ventral side of the stem in groups, separated by bare lengths of stem. These cormidial groups may suddenly separate.

To examine and make a drawing of a living specimen as Lesueur did in 1809 is a very arduous task. The vessel contains one writhing mass of palpons and tentacles. It is equally difficult to disentangle the parts and examine a fixed specimen particularly if it has been anaesthetized, when all the tentacles are expanded into very fine threads that cause one great tangle. Siphonophores soon become moribund in captivity.

The most significant and distinguishing character of Apolemia, as brought out in definitions by Leuckart (1854) and Claus (1863), is the presence of bunches of tentacles at the bases of the nectophores (text-fig. 15). These tentacles are quite unlike the single gastrozooid tentacle of other siphonophores which generally bears alternating side-branches (tentilla). They in fact probably represent the aboral tentacles of the progenitors of siphonophores rather than the characteristic siphonophore tentacles, which are probably oral in derivation, as suggested by Leloup (1954). They are found only in Apolemia. Their situation at the base of the muscular lamella of the nectophore seems to point significantly to a comparison with the somatocyst of calycophores, which too I have suggested represent bracteal canals or aboral tentacular canals. Another striking characteristic of Apolemia is the comparatively slight difference between the gastrozooids with their tentacles and the palpons with their palpacles. In these two ways Apolemia would seem to retain primitive features. The production of free cormidial groups constitutes the third striking character of Apolemia. This feature is found in no other Physonect.

Leuckart (1854), many of whose figures of details of siphonophores are very good, gave (pp. 313–320) a good account of this species, together with sketches of the air-sac, nectophores, gastrozooid, bract and female gonophores (Taf XII, figs. 6, 7, 10, 8 and 11). In the explanation of this plate on page 376 the numbering of figures 4–26 is erroneous. 'Figure 4' to 'figure 25' should read 'figure 5' to 'figure 26', and 'figure 26' should read 'figure 17' (bis.). There is no explanation of figure 4, which is a gastrozooid with basal tentacle (species unidentifiable). Leuckart on page 313 refers to a description of the animal by Lesueur in 'Journ. phys., 1813, p. 1'. This is an erroneous reference as I have already pointed out.

Leuckart's brief preliminary description simply mentions the two most characteristic features, club-shaped bracts and tentacles (Tastern) (it must be stressed that they are not homologous with Tastern (palpons) ) between the nectophores of the nectosome. He said it was as little related to species relegated to the genus Stephanomia as to species of Agalma, although Vogt had called it Agalma punctata. Leuckart (1854) said that he had only seen one complete specimen, a foot in length, at Nice, although he had on many occasions seen the isolated cormidial groups of appendages which appear easily to break off and, like eudoxids, continue their existence separately. His observations in general, he said, agreed with those of Gegenbaur (1853a, b), who gave another good account but did not observe the gonophores. Gegenbaur also commented on the ability of the whole colony to contract, and on the separate movement of the bracts. He mentioned that the longitudinal muscles of the stem occurred only on one side of the stem so that it took up a spiral form in contraction. Gegenbaur described at some length the fine structure of the stem and palpons.

The interesting red-brown palpons were not commented on by Gegenbaur, but both Leuckart (1853 and 1854) and Claus (1863) mentioned them. It is this feature about which we know least perhaps. Working on expanded material fixed in formalin I have not been able satisfactorily to determine their distribution in the cormidial groups. Nor am I certain that most palpons have not much of this brown pigment in their early developmental stages. This is a point on which to concentrate next time living material becomes available. I have never been stung by any Physonect, but Leuckart (1853), said that there was a pair of brown palpons distinguishable from the other palpons surrounding

[NOTE: "(Taf XII, figs. 6, 7, 10, 8 and 11)" is so printed, with no full stop after "Taf" and the figure numbers in that order.]

<<<PAGE pdf=53 file=page_053.txt>>>
[PAGE 48]
[RUNNING HEAD] 48	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

each gastrozooid, and that the ectoderm is full of nematocysts, which cause a sharp burning pain. These nematocysts were distinguishable, he said from those of the tentacles partly through their globular form, and partly through the spiral winding on their strong threads. At the tips of the palpacles of these brown palpons Leuckart said that there were smaller nematocysts distributed in a special way – which he did not specify as far as I can understand. Claus (1863) described the following five kinds of nematocysts each of which, he said, had its fixed and characteristic distribution, and which he figured on his Plate XLVI: (1) small globular, 0·007–0·008 mm diameter, in the ectoderm of small palpons and at the mouth of gastrozooids (fig. 8b). (2) Large globular, 0·012–0·014 mm diameter without hampe (Zwischenstück), in the ectoderm of nectophores and gastrozooids, producing whitish spots also, forming the heavy armature of the red-brown palpons (fig. 8a). (3) Oval, with a twin-knobbed, simple thread, 0·012 mm diameter, 0·02 mm long, in the ectoderm of the tentacles (fig. 8c). (4) Longish, elliptical, 0·011 mm diameter, 0·023 mm long, with a cylindrical hampe bearing spirally wound spinelets, forming the chief part of the armature of the tips of the palpons. (5) Pear shaped, large 0·018–0·02 mm diameter, 0·022 mm long, with a long conical hampe which bears spinelets set across it, provided with an operculum, found at the tips of palpons.

Claus commented on the abundance of cnidocils. Iwantzoff (1896) confirmed the presence of Claus's category 2, to which Weill (1934, p. 86), who had not examined Apolemia, gave the name birhophaloïdes. Weill pointed out that according to Iwantzoff's and Claus's descriptions the two dilatations were on a hampe, but seemed doubtful of their existence, and said it was necessary to re-examine Apolemia. I have recently examined tentacles that had been extended in MgCl2 before fixing in formalin-sea water, and have found many in which the nematocyst threads are devaginated. To my joy I found that the nematocysts were birhophaloïdes, just as Claus and Iwantzoff had described them. Actually they were first described and figured by Gegenbaur (1853b, Pl. 18, fig. 2). Subsequently in 1963 and 1964 I discharged numbers of these birhophaloïdes some of which I sent to Weill.

DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIES

Nectosome:   About a dozen nectophores (text-figs. 13, 14) are arranged as usual in two rows, each nectophore measuring from 13 to 19 mm in diameter or a little more. The axial side of each is deeply hollowed out. The two ridges on the latero-axial sides run up to form a rounded angle as shown (upside down) in Lesueur's figure 4 of an axial view. As described by Leuckart, the edges of these axial wings come together below to form a keel, but are wide apart above and embrace the

[FIGURE]
10mm
c.r.l
c.r.l
o
ped
A
B
2MM
C

FIG. 14.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur. Nectophores and bracts
A, ostial view; B, lateral view of a nectophore; C, bracts (from Totton & Fraser, 1955, figs. 8a–c).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: "MgCl2" is printed with a subscript 2. "10mm" is printed vertically alongside the scale bar of figure A; "2MM" horizontally beside the scale bar of C. In this copy a hand-drawn ink underline runs beneath the word "tentacles" ("I have recently examined tentacles"), with a shorter stroke beneath "many in" on the following line; these are reader's marks, not type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=54 file=page_054.txt>>>
[PAGE 49]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 3 APOLEMIIDAE	49

[FIGURE]
pn
c.r.l
l.m
o
ped
t
l.m

FIG. 15.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur. Upper part of the nectosome of a Villefranche specimen to show the peduncle of the nectophore, and the unique type of tentacle, × 8.3
c.r.l = lateral radial canal, showing spur canals; l.m = muscular lamella; o = ostium; ped = peduncle; pn = pneumatophore; t = tentacle.
[/FIGURE]

lower part of the nectophore above. The uppermost of the fully formed nectophores embraces all the budding nectophores and the lower part of the pneumatocodon at the apex of the stem. The upper end of the muscular lamella, which as usual develops on the upper and lower sides of the nectophore-peduncle, reaches about half-way up the axial wall of the nectophore to a level a little above the point where the lateral radial canals branch off from the dorsal radial canal. The pedicular (peduncular) canal, which is rather difficult to locate (see text-fig. 15), is lower down and about half-way between the junction of the lateral radial canals and the lowermost part of the nectophore. The upper wall of this pedicular canal curves down gently from the dorsal canal to join the stem in a U-like curve. The lower wall of the pedicular canal is very short, and in separated nectophores is generally missing because the whole of the lower wall of the ventral radial canal, to which the lower half of the muscular lamella is attached, becomes torn away, leaving the exposed ventral canal in a long torn area at the base of the nectophore. This is confusing to anyone not familiar with the species.

Five or six special nectosomal tentacles (text-fig. 15), to which I have already referred, arise near the pedicular canal of each nectophore. The lateral radial canals form S-like bends. On the axial side of the upper bend of the S are a number of short irregular branches, found only in Apolemia.

[NOTE: the magnification in the caption is printed "× 8.3" with a baseline full stop, unlike the mid-dot decimals used in the body text.]

<<<PAGE pdf=55 file=page_055.txt>>>
[PAGE 50]
[RUNNING HEAD] 50	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Siphosome:   May reach a length of 20 m, drawn up into a spiral when contracted, with numerous scaphoid bracts extending to the outer (dorsal) side, arranged in cormidial groups, up to 5 cms apart when the stem is extended. Each cormidium bears one or perhaps more gastrozooids and fifty or more palpons, both having fine filiform tentacles of the same kind issuing from their bases. The palpons are very long and slender and very active in life. The bracts like the nectophores are covered with opaque patches of nematocysts on the outer side. Some of the palpons are shorter and more rigid, with much brown pigment and heavily covered with nematocysts which can sting the hands. These nematocysts are large and banana-shaped, 0·77 mm in length with a long barbed hampe. The tentacles of the gastrozooids and palpons are armed with birhopaloïd nematocysts. A gastrozooid tentacle severed from the upper part of the stem of a specimen taken at Villefranche and anaesthetized in MgCl2, when straightened out measured 4 cm in length. My experience with siphonophore tentacles makes me estimate that in life this tentacle might have been three or four times as long or perhaps more. If an extended piece of tentacle is mounted on a microscope slide it can be seen to form internodes about 1/60 mm in diameter separating nodes of twice this diameter. The nodes contain a pair of birhopaloïd nematocysts and appear to have a cap of gland cells, and there appears to be a 'double

[FIGURE]
m
n
A
B
C
y
y
D
0·4mm

FIG. 16.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur
Detached monovon gonophores of a specimen from Friday Harbour, California, Fontaine Coll. m = manubrium; n = nucleus; y = yolk.
[/FIGURE]

fibre' down the centre of the tentacle. The gland cells and surrounding granules as well as the double fibre do not stain with borax carmine. The nematocysts appear to be associated with a pigment (see Vogt's fig. 1, Pl. 2). The 'double fibre' measures 0·01 mm in diameter. A specimen from Nanaimo, provisionally identified as A. uvaria, bore in addition on the tentacles and palpacles, oval nematocysts, 20–30μ × 19–20μ, whose devaginated spiral threads had no hampe.

Gonophores (text-figs. 16, 17) (see Leuckart, 1854, p. 319) are developed in bunches on the distal part of the stem. More information about them is needed. According to Claus (1863, p. 544) A. uvaria is dioecious.

Palpon nematocysts:   The material used was the tip of a large palpon of a specimen of Apolemia(?) species from Nanaimo kindly sent me by Dr. G. O. Mackie of Alberta University.

A crush preparation showed several evaginated large banana-shaped nematocysts with a long hampe.

[TABLE]
Maximum diameter	0·018 mm
Length	0·077 mm
Length of hampe	0·18  mm
Diameter of hampe	0·007 mm
Diameter of hampe including spines	0·013 mm
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: "1/60" is printed as a small stacked fraction. "MgCl2" is printed with a subscript 2. The printed query mark in "Apolemia(?) species" is the author's own, in round brackets. In the table at the foot, leader dots separate each item from its value; they are omitted here and a single tab substituted. "0·18  mm" carries an extra space before "mm" in the original alignment. In FIG. 16 the scale bar is lettered "0·4mm" set vertically; the panel letters and label letters are given above in reading order (m, n and A in the first panel; B; C with y; y with D).]

<<<PAGE pdf=56 file=page_056.txt>>>
[PAGE 51]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	51

No thread was visible beyond the long hampe. These measurements do not correspond with those of Claus's (1863) figure 8d, Plate XLVI. The capsule and the hampe are much longer than those of Claus's specimen, who gave the length and diameter of his 'länglich elliptische Kapsel' as about 0·023 mm × 0·011 mm. But his figure shows that the length of the capsule is nearly three times its diameter. My preparations of nematocysts made at Villefranche in 1964 could not be used in this synopsis.

[FIGURE]
e.o
g
y
e.m
0·1mm

FIG. 17.   Apolemia uvaria Lesueur. Distal end of female gonophore to show the laterally displaced manubrium lying wholly within the two-layered inner ectoderm. Radial canals are suppressed (semi-diagrammatic, based on a camera lucida sketch) e.o = outer ectoderm; g = inner ectoderm (Glockenkern); e.m = endoderm of manubrium; y = yolk.
[/FIGURE]

Family 4: AGALMIDAE Brandt, 1835

This is a family of long stemmed physonects whose generally long series of nectophores are arranged in two rows on either side of the nectosome. The terminal part of the oozooid in the three well-known genera, Agalma, Halistemma and Nanomia, can be seen at the distal end of the stem, still surrounded by its larval palpons and bearing a larval type tentacle (text-fig. 7).

Only five of the sixteen species recognized in this Synopsis, which are grouped into eight genera, are well known as complete animals. Tabulated in the order in which they are treated in this Synopsis, Bedot (1896), in his academic review of the literature of the Agalmidae, recognized the following:

TABLE IV

[TABLE]
Modern names of species	Bedot's names
Agalma elegans (Sars, 1846)	Agalmopsis sarsi Kölliker
Agalma haeckeli Bigelow, 1911	Agalma eschscholtzii Haeckel (non Lesson)
	Agalma okeni Eschscholtz
Agalma okeni Eschscholtz, 1825	Crystallomia polygonata Dana
	Agalma breve Huxley
[/TABLE]

[NOTE: the running head has the folio 51 at the outer (right) edge; the "4" in "FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE" is set in bold. In the Table IV right-hand column a large printed brace "{" spans the three entries "Agalma okeni Eschscholtz", "Crystallomia polygonata Dana" and "Agalma breve Huxley", grouping them against "Agalma okeni Eschscholtz, 1825" in the left column; the brace is not reproduced above. In FIG. 17 the labels e.o, g, y and e.m and the scale bar lettering "0·1mm" are all the text printed within the illustration, given in reading order. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-hyphen-like equals glyph.]

<<<PAGE pdf=57 file=page_057.txt>>>
[PAGE 52]
[RUNNING HEAD] 52	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

TABLE IV (cont.)

[TABLE]
Modern names of species	Bedot's names
Agalma clausi (Bedot, 1888)	Stephanopsis clausi Bedot
Halistemma rubrum (Vogt, 1852)	Halistemma rubrum Huxley
? Halistemma amphitridis Huxley, 1859	Cupulita amphitrites Bedot
	Cupulita picta Haeckel
Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje, 1841)	Cupulita canariensis Haeckel
	Anthemodes ordinata Haeckel
Nanomia cara Agassiz, 1865	Cupulita cara Haeckel
Lychnagalma utricularia (Claus, 1879)	Lychnagalma utricularia Haeckel
[/TABLE]

Three of these species have been so rarely taken that I have never seen specimens, viz. A. haeckli, A. clausi and Lychnagalma utricularia.

To the eight sound (? Stephanomia amphytridis* excluded) species accepted by Bedot in 1896 must now be added:

[TABLE]
Halistemma cupulifera Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908	Marrus orthocannoides Totton, 1954
Halistemma striata sp.n.	Marrus orthocanna (Kramp, 1942)
Cordagalma cordiformis Totton, 1932	Moseria gen.n. convoluta (Moser, 1925)
Marrus antarcticus Totton, 1954	Lychnagalma vesicularia Haeckel, 1888
[/TABLE]

KEY TO GENERA OF AGALMIDAE

[TABLE]
1.	Tentilla unicornuate	3
	Tentilla with more than one terminal appendage	2
2.	Tentilla multicornuate	Lychnagalma (p. 73)
	Tentilla tricornuate	Agalma (p. 52)
3.	Cnidoband very large, not spirally coiled	Erenna (p. 73)
	Cnidoband small, spirally coiled	4
4.	Cnidoband without basal involucrum	Marrus (p. 61)
	Cnidoband with basal involucrum	5
5.	Nectophores very flat. Antarctic species	Moseria (p. 67)
	Nectophores thick, not Antarctic species	6
6.	Mature specimens small, Gonodendra in pairs at bases of a series of palpons, sexes alternating from side to side	Nanomia (p. 68)
	Mature specimens large, one ♀ gonodendron in each cormidium	Halistemma (p. 55)
7.	Minute heart-shaped nectophores with unlooped lateral, radial canals	Cordagalma (p. 61)
[/TABLE]

Genus: AGALMA Eschscholtz, 1825

Type species A. okeni Eschscholtz, 1825.

Agalmopsis Sars, 1846; Kölliker, 1853
Crystallomia Dana, 1858; Kawamura, 1910/1911
Crystallodes Haeckel, 1869
Stephanopsis Bedot, 1896 (preocc. Cambridge, 1869)
Stephia Stechow, 1921

Agalmids with tricornuate tentilla, consisting of involucrate coiled cnidoband, terminal ampulla and paired lateral horns (Pls. IX, X).

[FOOTNOTE] *This indeterminate species is discussed on page 60.

[NOTE: the folio 52 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. In the first TABLE IV (cont.) block a large printed brace "{" in the right-hand column spans "Cupulita picta Haeckel", "Cupulita canariensis Haeckel" and "Anthemodes ordinata Haeckel", grouping them against "Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje, 1841)" in the left column; the brace is not reproduced above. The two lists after "must now be added:" are set as two side-by-side columns, transcribed above as a two-column table (left column entry then right column entry on each line); they are two independent lists, not paired rows. In the key, leader dots run from each lead to its right-hand entry; they are omitted and a single tab substituted. The genus names in the key right-hand column are set in bold italic. "A. haeckli" in the paragraph after the table is printed thus, without the second "e" found in "Agalma haeckeli" on p. 51; "Stephanomia amphytridis" is likewise printed with "y" where the table has "? Halistemma amphitridis". Both are as printed. "♀" is the printed female symbol in key lead 6.]

<<<PAGE pdf=58 file=page_058.txt>>>
[PAGE 53]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	53

Key to species of AGALMA

[TABLE]
1.	Distal border of bract very thick, obliquely truncated and faceted. Nectosac Y-shaped, viewed from above (Pl. IX, figs. 3, 11)	okeni
	Distal border of bract thin, not truncated	2
2.	Bracts with three unarmed, longitudinal ridges; nectosac triangular, viewed from above	elegans (p. 54)
	Bracts with from three to five armed longitudinal ridges and red pigment spots	haeckeli (p. 54)
3.	Thick, oval, foliaceous bracts with red spots, two teeth on each side. Nectophores resembling those of okeni	clausi (p. 53)
[/TABLE]

Agalma okeni Eschscholtz, 1825
Plate IX, figures 1–14; Plate XI, figure 3

Crystallomia polygonata Dana, 1858; Chun, 1897; Kawamura, 1910/1911
Agalma breve Huxley, 1859
Crystallodes rigidum Haeckel, 1869
Crystallodes vitrea Haeckel, 1888
Crystallomia sp. Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, figs.

A common species that occurs in the warmer regions of all three great oceans.

The nectosome is a dodecagonal body slightly tapered above, where lies the small egg-shaped pneumatophore with reddish-brown pigment at its apex. Eight lamellae stretch from pneumatosaccus to pneumatocodon. The nectophores and other details were figured beautifully by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 17) and by Kawamura (1910/1911) reproduced here on Plate IX, figures 1–14.

Two types of nectophore are associated in plankton net hauls with the same kind of bracts and siphosome. One of these, which has two vertical ridges on the lateral facet on each side, is the mature form figured by Dana (1858) (Pl. IX, fig. 2). Nectophores produced in the early growth stages appear (see Totton, 1954, p. 54) to have only one ridge on each side (Pl. IX, fig. 10). To this type Kawamura (1910/1911) applied the name Crystallomia polygonata Dana.

The animal may reach a length of 13 cm and a width of 2, have eighteen nectophores on each side and from five to fifteen cormidia according to age.

Agalma haeckeli Bigelow, 1911

Agalma eschscholtzii Hkl. 1888
non A eschscholtzii, 1843

Described and figured from a single, small specimen taken off Beligemma, Ceylon. Both description and figures are inadequate. As Bigelow (1911b) judged, this is not a well established species, but it is included here in the hope that someone will keep a look out for it.

The only recorded characters that might be regarded as specific are ribs, from three to five in number, on the bracts, and the patchwork of reddish pigment that they bear.

Agalma clausi Bedot, 1888

Stephanopsis clausi Bedot, 1896
Agalma sarsi Fewkes, 1881 (preocc. Kölliker, 1853). non A. elegans (Sars) 1846

This species was well figured and described by Bedot (1888) from three specimens taken at Villefranche, near Nice. It has not been recorded since then. Possibly it has escaped observation there because there is no copy of Bedot's paper in the Villefranche Station library. This paper by Bedot provides, perhaps, the most detailed description of any species of Agalma. But the nectophores were not described or figured adequately, so that I feel that there must be some doubt about the distinctiveness of the species. In some ways it resembles A. okeni, though the bracts are different. A. clausi has foliaceous bracts with parallel rows of red glands or pigment spots. The animal reaches a length of 24 cm and the stem is stiff and not contractile. There are thirteen nectophores or so on each side. They 'are like those of A. elegans and A. okenii', Bedot said, although the nectophores of these two species are unlike one another.

[NOTE: in the "Key to species of AGALMA" leader dots run from each lead to its right-hand entry; they are omitted above and a single tab substituted. The right-hand entries are set in bold italic. Lead 1's first option gives only "okeni" with no page reference, and no lead in the key directs the reader to "3" — both as printed. The species names in the section headings are bold italic; "AGALMA" in the key title is bold italic small capitals. "non A eschscholtzii, 1843" is printed with no full stop after "A". "Crystallodes vitrea" and "A. okenii" are printed thus. In the first line of key lead 1 there is a wider-than-normal space in "Distal border of  bract"; normal spacing is used above.]

<<<PAGE pdf=59 file=page_059.txt>>>
[PAGE 54]
[RUNNING HEAD] 54	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Agalma elegans (Sars, 1846) Fewkes, 1880
Plate X, figures 11–17; Plate XI, figures 1, 2; text-figures 7, 18–20

Agalmopsis elegans Sars, 1846 (partim)
Agalmopsis sarsi Kölliker 1853; Leuckart, 1853
Agalma punctata: Leuckart, 1853 (non Kölliker, 1853; Vogt, 1854)
Agalma clavata Leuckart, 1853; 1854 (partim)
Agalma elegans Fewkes, 1880a; 1881
Agalma sarsii Fewkes, 1880a

Agalmopsis elegans Sars, was a compound species with two components, the second of which – form B – consisted of a trifid tentillum. The bulk of the description and all the rest of the figures referred to the other component, now known as Nanomia cara. Kölliker (1853) found specimens at Messina with trifid tentilla and called them Agalmopsis sarsii. Haeckel (1888b) restricted the name elegans to this species with the trifid tentilla, though he thought it different from Agalmopsis sarsii Kölliker.

Kawamura (1911b) gave a good figure of the whole animal (Pl. X, fig. 11) as well as figures of details. A figure of the whole animal and details were given by Totton (1954) reproduced here in text-figure 7.

Nectophores (text-figs. 7, 18):   The nectosac, seen from above or below, is triangular in shape not Y-shaped as in okeni.

Bracts (Pl. X, figs. 14, 15):   Foliaceous, 10 mm × 6 mm, in two latero-ventral rows, very thin at the distal margin which is tridentate. The upper convex surface bears three ridges on the distal half. The bracteal canal terminates, save occasionally for a fine vestigial extension, some distance short of the tip.

Tentacles (Pl. X, fig. 17):   The cnidoband of the tricornuate tentillum is completely enclosed when mature in the involucrum. The lateral horns are up to 3 mm in length. The protozooid has tentilla with kidney-shaped cnidosacs.

[FIGURE]
A
To.
R.ap.-lat.
R.vert.lat.
R.inf.lat.
0
5.mm.
B

FIG. 18.   Agalma elegans (Sars). Lateral, A, and upper, B, views of a nectophore from Villefranche,
× 8
R.ap.lat = apico-lateral ridge; R.inf.lat = infra-lateral ridge; R.vert.lat = latero-vertical ridge; To = tooth (from Totton, 1954, fig. 24).
[/FIGURE]

Gonophores:   A female gonodendron at the proximal end of each cormidium. There is a gap along the stem between the insertion of this and the male gonophores, which with the palpons are scattered over more than half the length of each cormidial segment (text-fig. 7). Fewkes (1883) gave a good figure of the female gonophore and described the early development of the so-called 'Athorybia larva', of A. elegans (text-fig. 19). For the detailed description of the metamorphosis of this larva (text-figs. 19B and 20) see Totton (1956).

[NOTE: the folio 54 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. In the synonymy "Agalmopsis sarsi Kölliker 1853" is printed without a comma after "Kölliker", and "Agalma punctata:" carries a colon; both as printed. FIG. 18 consists of two drawings side by side; the lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the illustration, in reading order — the labels are set in a sloping sans-like hand lettering. The scale bar under drawing A is lettered "0" at its left end and "5.mm." at its right; the "0" is an old-style zero, printed like a lower-case o. The "× 8" magnification stands on its own centred line in the caption. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as the same double-stroke equals glyph used elsewhere in this monograph.]

<<<PAGE pdf=60 file=page_060.txt>>>
[PAGE 55]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	55

[FIGURE]
1MM
0
Nec.
Pn
Bg
Pr.Z
T. larv.
Pal
A
N
Pn
N
Nec
Gz.3
Pr.Z
Pal
Gz.2
B
1MM.
0

FIG. 19.   Agalma elegans (Sars). 'Athorybia' larvae
A, an early larva, × 62, showing bracts (coloured blue), bracteal canals (red), and the first of a ring of palpons; B, an early stage in metamorphosis, × 16. That side of the upper end which carries the pneumatophore has elongated to carry the latter above the ring of coronal bracts. Two nectophores have developed and are functional. The protozooid has taken up a latero-terminal position leaving the second gastrozooid at the end

Pn = pneumatophore; N = nectophore; T.larv = larval tentacle; Gz2, 3 = secondary gastrozooids; Nec = nectostyle; Bg = basigaster; Pal = palpon; Pr.Z = protozooid (from Totton, 1956, figs. 2, 6).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
FIG. 20.   Agalma elegans (Sars)
A juvenile specimen × 11. Nectosome and siphosome have elongated in opposite directions. The nectostyle can still be seen opposite to the pedicel of the first nectophore. Note the small size of the protozooid. Definitive (secondary) stem bracts coloured green. Tentacles not shown except for part of the larval one of the protozooid (from Totton, 1956, fig. 9).

3MM.
0
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — it is entirely occupied by two text-figures and their captions. FIG. 19 occupies the upper half of the page as two drawings side by side, A on the left and B on the right, each with its own vertical scale bar; the labels listed inside the first [FIGURE] above are all the text printed within those drawings, in reading order (panel A first, then panel B), and are hand-lettered. The scale bar of panel A is lettered "1MM" at the top and "0" at the foot, that of panel B "1MM." and "0"; the "1" is a bare hand-drawn vertical stroke and "MM" is in small capitals. FIG. 19's caption runs the full page width for its first six lines, then the abbreviation block that ends it is set as a narrow left-hand column because the FIG. 20 illustration occupies the right-hand side of the lower half of the page; the FIG. 20 caption sits below it in the same narrow left column, with the drawing to its right. Per protocol the left column is given in full before the right. The vertical scale bar beside the FIG. 20 drawing is lettered "3MM." at the top and "0" at the foot; these are the only characters printed in that illustration. The "=" signs in the FIG. 19 abbreviation block are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph, and in "Pal = palpon" and "Pr.Z = protozooid" they are set tight against the abbreviation without spaces.]

<<<PAGE pdf=61 file=page_061.txt>>>
[PAGE 56]
[RUNNING HEAD] 56	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Genus: HALISTEMMA Huxley, 1859

Type species H. rubrum (Vogt) 1852.

Agalmidae with unicornuate tentilla whose cnidobands lack a marked basal involucrum. Only two species have hitherto been described, H. rubrum (Vogt) and H. cupulifera Lens & van Riemsdijk, but plankton samples sometimes contain nectophores of agalmids which somewhat resemble the large nectophores of H. rubrum, but with extra, vertical, lateral ridges. Such a specimen was taken in 1929 by Beebe off Bermuda, in about 1530 m (700 fathoms). It has been described under the name H. striata sp.n. on page 59 with others, which were taken at two Discovery stations, 81 and 704, in open nets fished obliquely from 231 m and 650 m to the surface. The nectophore is shown in text-figure 24.

Halistemma rubrum (Vogt, 1852)
Plate XII

Agalma rubra Vogt, 1852; 1854
Agalmopsis rubra Leuckart, 1853
Agalma rubrum Leuckart, 1854
Agalmopsis punctata Kölliker, 1853
Halistemma rubrum Huxley, 1859
Agalmopsis rubra Schneider, 1899
Stephanomia rubra Bigelow, 1911b; Totton, 1954

A well-known Mediterranean species, studied in detail and beautifully illustrated by Vogt (1854, Tab. 7) but confused by him with juvenile specimens of Nanomia bijuga and with the 'Athorybia larva' of Agalma elegans, all of which he mistook for early growth-stages of H. rubrum.

The nectosome (up to 17 cm long) carries as many as thirty pairs of nectophores, which measure 13 mm in length and are 10·5 mm wide (text-fig. 21). The corresponding siphosome would be 176 cm in length. The stem is about 1·5 mm in diameter.

The gastrozooids are spaced about 2·5 cm apart, measure from 15–17 mm in length and 2 mm in diameter, and have an elongate ovate basigaster measuring 4·5 mm in length and 1·5 mm in diameter. The tentacle bears from four to six unicornuate, vermilion tentilla, coiled up in from eight to ten coils and 5 mm in length, on pedicels measuring 1 cm in length. At the junction of the pedicel with the cnidoband there is an inconspicuous expansion that probably represents the involucrum. The tentillum (see Korotneff, 1884; and Schneider, 1899) consists of a cnidoband loosely coiled ten or so times round the two cords that expand on activation and cause the apparatus to function like a mustard plaster. The bulk of the cnidoband consists of innumerable rows of sabre-shaped nematocysts which measure from 65–70μ in length and 7μ in width. On each side in the proximal region is a row of larger bean-shaped nematocysts of the same length but 20μ in width. The terminal filament exceeds 2 cm in length and terminates in a cone-shaped coil of ten turns, 0·75 mm in length, faithfully depicted by Vogt (1854, Tab. 8, fig. 1).

The palpons are very active and vermiform in extension. They measure 11 mm in length and 2 mm in diameter. Their simple palpacles bear pairs of small nematocysts. Their arrangement and association with the gonodendra has not, as far as I know, been described hitherto. I observed the following arrangement in a specimen whose nectosome measures 10 cm in length, preserved in formalin after relaxation in MgCl2. It was taken at Villefranche at 9.30 a.m. on March 31, 1949, and bore about forty gastrozooids.

On each cormidium there are proximally two or three palpons, probably derived from secondary budding. Distal to them there is a larger palpon with a palpacle that measures 15 mm in length, not fully

[NOTE: the folio 56 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. "MgCl2" is printed with a subscript 2. "μ" is the printed Greek mu, set immediately after the numeral without a space ("65–70μ", "7μ", "20μ"). "Discovery" in "two Discovery stations" is printed in roman, not italic. In the last line of the page "to them there" is set with the words almost touching, an artefact of tight justification. The page ends mid-sentence with "not fully".]

<<<PAGE pdf=62 file=page_062.txt>>>
[PAGE 57]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	57

[FIGURE]
3.mm
C.rad.lat
W.lat.
A
Ns.v
C.rad.d.
C.rad.lat
B
3.mm
C.rad.v.

FIG. 21.   Halistemma rubrum (Vogt). Nectophore, × 8
A, lateral view of specimen from Villefranche; B, underside of the same
C.rad.d., C.rad.lat., C.rad.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals; Ns.v = ventral wall of nectosac; W.lat = lateral wing (from Totton, 1954, fig. 12B, E).
[/FIGURE]

5

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — it is entirely occupied by text-fig. 21 (two drawings, A above and B below) and its caption. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the two drawings, in reading order: for A the horizontal scale bar lettered "3.mm", the labels "C.rad.lat" and "W.lat." and the panel letter "A"; for B the labels "Ns.v" and "C.rad.d." at the top, "C.rad.lat" at the right, the panel letter "B" at the left, the vertical scale bar lettered "3.mm" (set reading bottom-to-top), and "C.rad.v." at the lower right. All of it is hand-lettered in a sloping style. The bare "5" at the foot of the page, at the left in folio position, is a printer's signature mark and not a page number. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph.]

<<<PAGE pdf=63 file=page_063.txt>>>
[PAGE 58]
[RUNNING HEAD] 58	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

expanded. From the distal side of its base is budded, in the mid-ventral line, the wide muscular stemmed female gonodendron, with its branches and medusoid gonophores resembling a miniature bunch of grapes. When mature it is about 5 mm in diameter, and capable of a great deal of expansion and contraction. It is situated at about one-third the distance from the last gastrozooid to the next one, and bears a number of reinforcing rings in the stem-wall. Distal to the female gonodendron are three other large palpons with palpacles, occupying the middle region of the cormidium. On the distal side of the base of each and in the mid-ventral line of the stem is a reduced male gonodendron (text-fig. 22).

[FIGURE]
1
4
6
7
2
5
3
1
4
7
6
2
5
3
0·5mm

FIG. 22.   Halistemma rubrum (Vogt)
Two views of an early growth stage of a male gonodendron, × 64. The numerals refer to the order of budding.
[/FIGURE]

It has not been sufficiently described hitherto. It can be seen that each of the male gonophores buds off at an angle of rather more than 120° in the transverse plane from the base of its predecessor to form a left-handed spiral. When mature the pedicels of the male gonophores grow to the comparatively enormous length of 5 mm. There may be present on each male gonodendron from eight to ten mature male medusoid gonophores, which start to pulsate whilst still attached, but finally detach themselves to swim away and shed their sperms. They are about 6 mm in length and lack tentacles. Each female gonophore – up to 0·7 mm in diameter – contains a single egg. In the distal region of each cormidium may be found two or three other palpons probably derived from secondary budding. It is not known whether they in turn develop gonodendra.

The bracts (text-fig. 23) are leaf-like, distally pointed, with two latero-terminal teeth and a short median terminal ridge. Overlying the tip of the bracteal canal there is a sagittal pad of nematocysts, which is most prominent in early growth-stages. The muscular lamella is attached a little below the proximal, pointed end, and the muscle is best seen on the under side of the pedicel.

Halistemma cupulifera Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Plate XIII, figures 1–3

A partly known species described and figured from a single small fragment of a specimen, characterized by the terminal filament of the tentillum (Pl. XIII, fig. 2). This ends in an acorn-like appendage, whereas that of H. rubrum ends in a cone-shaped coil of ten turns, measuring about 0·75 mm

[NOTE: the folio 58 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. In text-fig. 22 the only printed lettering consists of the numerals labelling the buds of each of the two drawings and the scale bar; they are listed inside [FIGURE] above in reading order — left drawing (1, 4, 6, 7, 2, 5, 3), then right drawing (1, 4, 7, 6, 2, 5, 3) — followed by the scale bar lettering "0·5mm", which is set centred beneath the two drawings and belongs to both. The dashes in "gonophore – up to 0·7 mm in diameter –" are printed as en-rules of slightly unequal length. In the first paragraph several word pairs are set almost touching ("From the", "distal side", "base is budded", "great deal of") through tight justification; normal spacing is used above. The page ends mid-sentence with "0·75 mm".]

<<<PAGE pdf=64 file=page_064.txt>>>
[PAGE 59]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	59

[FIGURE]
A
5.mm.
0
B
1.m.m.
0
Nem
C
1.m.m.
0
E
C.br.
1 mm
D
0
Nem.

FIG. 23.   Halistemma rubrum (Vogt). Bracts of specimen from Villefranche
B, C, young bracts, × 20, to show the apical position of the pads of nematocysts. A, E, × 6; D, × 11
C.br = bracteal canal; Nem = apical pad of nematocysts (from Totton, 1954, fig. 14).
[/FIGURE]

in length. There was said to be no involucrum, but that of H. rubrum is vestigial and has been missed by earlier observers. The rest of the original description is unsufficiently distinguishable from that of H. rubrum. It will be recognized again by its terminal filaments.

Halistemma striata sp.n.
Text-figure 24

The species is known only by very distinctive nectophores, which vary in width from 8 mm to 19 mm. The figured specimen is selected as the type. It was taken off Bermuda by W. Beebe.

Nectophore:   There is a characteristic arrangement of four lateral ridges (text-fig. 24, r, r, r), which descend from the upper lateral ridge (vk' of Claus; see text-fig. 34) at an angle of about 30° from the vertical towards the ostial end of the base. The ridge at the ostial end bifurcates; the upper, inner branch runs down to and just below the ostial chromatophore (c.o.). The basal end of the lower

[NOTE: text-fig. 23 occupies the top two-thirds of the page as five hand-drawn panels: A upper left, B upper middle and C upper right, then E lower left and D lower right. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, given in reading order across the upper row then the lower: panel letter A with its vertical scale bar lettered "5.mm." above and "0" below; panel letter B with its scale bar "1.m.m." / "0" and the label "Nem"; panel letter C with its scale bar "1.m.m." / "0"; panel letter E; then in the lower right drawing the label "C.br.", the scale bar lettered "1 mm" and "0", the panel letter D, and the label "Nem.". All are hand-lettered in a sloping style; the "1" of each "1.m.m." and of "1 mm" is a bare stroke, and the "0" of each scale bar is a small circle. Note that the labels are lettered "C.br." and "Nem." inside the drawings but "C.br" and "Nem" without the final stop in the caption; both are as printed. "unsufficiently" in the paragraph after the figure is printed thus. In the last paragraph "(text-fig. 24, r, r, r)" lists only three italic r's although the sentence describes four lateral ridges; as printed. "vk'" carries a printed prime. The page ends mid-sentence with "the lower".]

<<<PAGE pdf=65 file=page_065.txt>>>
[PAGE 60]
[RUNNING HEAD] 60	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
p.w
A
r
r
r
5mm
c.l.r
r
r
r
B
p.w
v
p
r
r
r
C
v
c.o

FIG. 24.   Halistemma striata sp.n, from Bermuda, Beebe Coll. Three views of a nectophore to show ridges, × 4.9
A, view from above; B, lateral view; C, ostial view
r = lateral ridges; c.o = ostial chromatophores; p = pedicular canal; p.w = wedge process; v = velum; c.l.r = lateral radial canal.
[/FIGURE]

one is scarcely visible in a lateral view without staining. In text-figure 24B it is represented as incomplete.

There are prominent lateral wedge-processes (p.w.) at the stem end with marked articulation cavities and bosses.

The lateral radial canals run as shown in text-figure 24B. They rise above the horizontal after branching from the pedicular canal and then sweep down the outer and stem-side edge of the nectosac. There is a short, horizontal basal section, after which they sweep up just on the stem-side of the second ridge, to run ostiad half-way to the third ridge. Here they turn inwards over the shoulder of the lateral horn of the nectosac. They then sweep down the outer edge of the nectosac to the base, from which they run in obliquely to the circular canal at the ostium.

Known distribution:   Bermuda (W. Beebe Coll.).
"Discovery" St. 81, 32° 45′S, 8° 47′W, 1 nectophore.
"Discovery" St. 704, 3° 37·7′N, 29° 14′W, 7 nectophores.

INDETERMINATE SPECIES

? Halistemma amphytridis (Lesueur & Petit), 1807

Stephanomia amphytridis Lesueur & Petit, 1807
? Stephanomia amphitridis Huxley, 1859
? Stephanomia amphitridis Bigelow, 1911b

One hundred and fifty-six years ago the name Stephanomia amphytridis was first used by Lesueur & Petit (1807) for the figured siphosome of a large unicornuate agalmid which at present cannot be

[NOTE: the folio 60 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. Text-fig. 24 occupies the upper 40% of the page as three hand-drawn panels: A at the left, B upper right, C lower right. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, grouped panel by panel in reading order — A: "p.w", the panel letter "A", three separate "r" labels down the left side and the horizontal scale bar lettered "5mm"; B: "c.l.r", three "r" labels, the panel letter "B", "p.w", "v", "p"; C: three "r" labels, the panel letter "C", "v", "c.o". All of it is hand-lettered in an upright sans-serif in which upper and lower case are not always distinguishable; the forms have been given as the caption spells them, but the "v" of panel C and the "c.o" of panel C are drawn at capital height and could equally be read "V" and "C.O". The two "Discovery" lines under Known distribution are indented and set on separate lines as printed, with straight double quotation marks; the minute marks after 45, 47, 37·7 and 14 are printed primes. "sp.n" in the figure caption is printed without a final stop, and "× 4.9" with a full point rather than the mid-dot used elsewhere in the monograph. In the synonymy the spellings "amphytridis" (Lesueur & Petit) and "amphitridis" (Huxley, Bigelow) differ as printed. The page ends mid-sentence with "cannot be".]

<<<PAGE pdf=66 file=page_066.txt>>>
[PAGE 61]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	61

specifically identified. Fifty-two years later Huxley (1859) used the same name for a similar siphosome taken off the east coast of Australia, which he figured in some detail. Fifty-two years later still Bigelow (1911b) described and figured two similar siphosome fragments from the Eastern Tropical Pacific, both in beautiful condition, and with colour notes. These specimens are probably congeneric with species now referred to the genus Halistemma.

Even so, in the absence of data about the nectosomes of these four specimens, it is difficult to base a description of a species on them, although if a complete, well preserved specimen should ever be taken off the east coast of Australia, the details of whose siphosome corresponded with Huxley's (1859) and Bigelow's (1911b) figures and material, then we could firmly establish a species Stephanomia amphytridis Lesueur & Petit, 1807.

A great deal of similar material of both nectosomes and siphosomes collected off Bermuda by Beebe and also by the ships of the National Institute of Oceanography is known to exist, and it is to be hoped that yet another fifty-two years will not pass before it is examined more fully and described.

Genus: CORDAGALMA Totton, 1932

Minute agalmids with heart-shaped nectophores, whose lateral canals do not form sigmoid curves. Monotypic genus for C. cordiformis Totton, 1932.

[FIGURE]
0·5MM
A
B
C

FIG. 25.   Cordagalma cordiformis Totton
A, ventral and B, ostial view of a nectophore from the Great Barrier Reef, × 47. C, diagrammatic optical section of a nectophore (from Totton, 1932, figs. 8, 9)
[/FIGURE]

Cordagalma cordiformis Totton, 1932
Text-figure 25

Known only from its minute nectophores, this must be the smallest of Physonects, and has been generally overlooked, though reported by the author from the following localities, Great Barrier Reef; off St. Vincent, West Indies; Villefranche-sur-Mer, A.M., France; Gulf of Aqaba; East African coast.

The nectophores (text-fig. 25) measure 2·0 mm × 1·2 mm × 1·1 mm. They are heart-shaped when viewed from the ostial side and the lateral radial canals do not form sigmoid curves, but make one ascending loop on their way to the circular canal.

[NOTE: text-fig. 25 consists of three drawings side by side. The only text printed within them is the vertical scale bar at the far left, lettered "0·5MM" with the "MM" in small capitals, and the panel letters A, B and C set at the foot of each drawing; they are listed inside [FIGURE] above in reading order. "CORDAGALMA" in the genus heading is bold italic capitals, and "Cordagalma cordiformis" in the species heading bold italic. In "1911b" and "(1911b)" the two 1's of "11" are set slightly apart, an artefact of the old-style figures.]

<<<PAGE pdf=67 file=page_067.txt>>>
[PAGE 62]
[RUNNING HEAD] 62	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Genus: MARRUS Totton, 1954

Type species Marrus antarcticus Totton, 1954.

A group of three unicornuate Agalmidae known only from fragments, whose nectophores have straight (unlooped) lateral radial canals.

Marrus antarcticus Totton, 1954
Text-figures 26, 27

A species associated with the antarctic zone and with water that has recently left the zone, or is in close proximity. A deep-water or mid-water species which is dioecious – an unusual condition for agalmids.

Pneumatophore:   Carrot-shaped, 4–4·5 mm length, 1 mm diameter.

Nectophores (text-fig. 26):   17 mm × 15 mm × 9 mm. Lateral facets not cut off by a vertical lateral ridge. Ridges V K′ and V K″ (terminology of Claus, 1879) present though not easily seen without staining. Nectosac without musculature on its broad ad-axial face. Lateral radial canals straight, without sigmoid loops, pigmented deep, rich, orange-scarlet.

[FIGURE]
A
B
0
1.m.m.
C
C.rad. d.
C.rad.v.
C.rad.lat
C.ped
C.pa
D
C.radd.
Vel.
C.circ.
C.rad.lat
Ost.
C.rad.lat
N.s
C.pa
C.ped
C.rad.v.

FIG. 26.   Marrus antarcticus Totton. Nectophores
A, under side; B, upper side; C, lateral view; D, adaxial view, × 4.6
C.circ, C.rad.d, C.rad.lat, C.rad.v = circular, dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals; C.pa = pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; Ns = nectosac; Vel = velum; Ost = ostium (from Totton, 1954, fig. 20).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the folio 62 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. "MARRUS" in the genus heading is bold italic capitals; "Marrus antarcticus" in the species heading bold italic. "V K′" and "V K″" carry a printed prime and double prime respectively. Text-fig. 26 occupies the lower half of the page as four hand-drawn panels: A upper left, B upper right, C lower left, D lower right. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, grouped panel by panel in reading order — A: the panel letter only; B: the panel letter and a horizontal scale bar lettered "0" at its left end and "1.m.m." at its right; C: the panel letter, "C.rad. d." above and, along the foot, "C.rad.v.", "C.rad.lat", "C.ped", "C.pa"; D: the panel letter, "C.radd.", "Vel.", "C.circ.", "C.rad.lat" (at the upper left of the drawing), "Ost.", a second "C.rad.lat" (at the right), "N.s", and along the foot "C.pa", "C.ped", "C.rad.v.". All are hand-lettered in a sloping style; the "1" of "1.m.m." is a bare stroke and the "0" a small circle. Note that the dorsal-radial-canal label is lettered "C.rad. d." with a space in panel C but "C.radd." with no separating stop in panel D, while the caption spells it "C.rad.d"; and the nectosac label is lettered "N.s" in the drawing but "Ns" in the caption. All are as printed. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph, and "× 4.6" uses a full point where the mid-dot is used elsewhere.]

<<<PAGE pdf=68 file=page_068.txt>>>
[PAGE 63]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	63

Stem:   Deep, rich orange-scarlet in colour.

Gastrozooids and tentacles:   Gastrozooids long and narrow, up to 30 mm in length, of which one-fifth to one-half is formed by the cylindrical basigaster. Tentilla unicornuate, without involucrum. Cnidoband in three coils, 0·9 mm to 2·5 mm in length. Pedicel of tentillum 0·8 mm in length, terminal filament 1–5 mm in length. Nematocysts of cnidoband in a dozen rows, about 5,000 in number, finger-shaped (?) anisorhizas, 40μ long, 7μ diameter. On either side are 125 large 'accessory' nematocysts, (?) mastigophores, measuring 50μ long, 20μ diameter. The terminal filament contains numerous smaller, ovoid, (?) isorhizas, measuring 18μ × 5μ, as well as larger ovoid nematocysts measuring 18μ × 13μ.

Palpons:   Up to 30 mm length, slender, possibly lacking palpacles, borne on gonodendra.

[FIGURE]
A
D
P.
O.v.
E
N.uc.
Spx.
B
P.
0
1.m.m.
C
0
2 mm.

FIG. 27.   Marrus antarcticus Totton. Bracts and gonophore
A, lateral view of an adult bract; B, upper view of same; C, D, lateral views of young bracts; E, gonophore. A, B, C, D, × 12, E, × 13
Nuc = nucleus; Ov = ovum; P = palpon; Spx = spadix (from Totton, 1954, fig. 21).
[/FIGURE]

Gonophores (text-figure 27E):   (Female), much reduced, with four radial canals but no ostium, and monovon. Eggs up to 1·25 mm diameter, surrounded by irregularly branched spadix on one side only. A specimen from 'Discovery' Station 2010 is all male.

Bracts (text-fig. 27A–D):   Flattened cone-shaped, truncated distally, bracteal canal terminating on papilla on this distal facet.

Marrus orthocannoides Totton, 1954
Text-figures 28, 29

A cold water form, whose nectophores differ in one important respect from those of the other two species in having no muscle-free adaxial wall to the nectosac. Known only from fragments.

[NOTE: "μ" is the printed Greek mu, set immediately after each numeral without a space. In "formed by the cylindrical basigaster" the "e" of "the" has a broken crossbar in this copy and can read as "c"; the word is "the". Text-fig. 27 occupies the middle half of the page: the two large drawings A (upper) and B (lower) fill the left two-thirds, while D (top), E (middle) and C (bottom) are ranged down the right-hand side. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, given in approximate top-to-bottom reading order; the scale bar lettered "0" and "1.m.m." belongs to drawing E, and the lower bar lettered "0" and "2 mm." to drawings A and B. Two separate labels read "P." in drawing E, one above and one to the right. All the in-drawing lettering is hand-lettered in a sloping style; the "1" of "1.m.m." is a bare stroke and each "0" a small circle. Note that the drawing letters the labels "O.v.", "N.uc." and "Spx." with internal stops where the caption spells them "Ov", "Nuc" and "Spx"; as printed. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. "Marrus orthocannoides" is printed with a double "n".]

<<<PAGE pdf=69 file=page_069.txt>>>
[PAGE 64]
[RUNNING HEAD] 64	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
C.ped
C.ped
4.mm.
C.rad.d.
C.rad.v.
C.rad.lat
0
A
B

FIG. 28.   Marrus orthocannoides Totton. Nectophores
A, upper side; B, lateral view, × 6
C.ped = pedicular canal; C.rad.d, C.rad.lat, C.rad.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals (from Totton, 1954, fig. 22).
[/FIGURE]

Pneumatophore:   Oblong, 6 mm length, 2 mm diameter.

Nectosome:   14 mm × 2 mm; strongly contracted.

Nectophores (text-fig. 28):   Lateral facets undivided by ridges. Lateral radial canals straight, not forming sigmoid loops. No muscle-free ad-axial wall. A pair of ridges divides the upper surface from the lateral facets. They bifurcate near the ostium. The nectophores are borne on the same side of the stem as the gastrozooids.

Siphosome:   23 cm long, 3·7–4·6 mm diameter; stem strongly contracted.

Bracts (text-fig. 29):   Thin and leaf-like, flanking the palpons up to 15 mm length × 8 mm broad, ovate, without marginal teeth, distal end thickened, obliquely truncate, attached along proximal two-thirds of length, so that bracteal canal is only one-third the length of bract. The canal ends in the middle of one margin of the terminal facet.

Palpons:   Very numerous, slender, 9·2 mm length, 0·2 mm diameter, on short pedicels, close set in four or five longitudinal rows, each with a fine palpacle.

Gonodendra:   Fine, 4·6 mm length, two or three per cormidium, bearing a dozen or more male gonophores on very short pedicels. The species is dioecious.

Gonophores:   (Male), globular, up to 1·1 mm diameter.

Gastrozooids and tentacles unknown.

[NOTE: the folio 64 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. Text-fig. 28 occupies the upper half of the page as two drawings, the large A at the left and B at the right. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, in approximate reading order: "C.ped" at the top of drawing A and a second "C.ped" at the top of drawing B; then in A the vertical scale bar lettered "4.mm." at the top and "0" at the foot, the labels "C.rad.d.", "C.rad.v." and "C.rad.lat" ranged down the right-hand side, and the panel letter "A"; and the panel letter "B" at the foot of the right-hand drawing. All the in-drawing lettering is hand-lettered in a sloping style. Note that the drawing letters the labels with a final stop ("C.rad.d.", "C.rad.v.") which the caption omits ("C.rad.d", "C.rad.v"); as printed. In the Palpons paragraph the punctuation after "on short pedicels" is a comma followed by a short horizontal stroke at x-height — either a broken semicolon or a stray ink mark; it is transcribed above as a plain comma. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph.]

<<<PAGE pdf=70 file=page_070.txt>>>
[PAGE 65]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	65

[FIGURE]
A
C.br.
B
5.mm
0
C

FIG. 29.   Marrus orthocannoides Totton. Bracts
A, fully grown; B, C, young, × 10. The pecked portion of the bracteal canal is the area of attachment of the bracteal muscle
C.br = bracteal canal (from Totton, 1954, fig. 23).
[/FIGURE]

Marrus orthocanna (Kramp, 1942)
Text-figure 30

Stephanomia orthocanna Kramp, 1942

A large, high-arctic Agalmid from the deep water of Baffin Bay. Known from incomplete specimens. It has been found also penetrating south, west of the Faroes.

Pneumatophore:   4·5–5 mm long × 2 mm diameter, flask-shaped.

Nectosome:   Short.

Nectophores (text-fig. 30):   Large, 13 mm wide, 15 mm long, 7·5 mm deep. Lateral radial canals without sigmoid loops (straight).

Stem:   2–3 mm diameter, bright scarlet in colour.

Gastrozooids:   15 mm long, spindle- or club-shaped.

Basigaster long, cylindrical, about equal in diameter to that of stomach, which has numerous villi. The cnidoband of the tentillum is slightly coiled, there is a single terminal filament and no involucrum.

Bracts (only one found):   5 mm long, 3 mm broad, 1 mm thick, quadrangular, distal and lateral angles almost rectangular, without protruding points or ridges.

Palpons and gonophores unknown.

[NOTE: text-fig. 29 occupies the upper half of the page as three drawings: the large A at the left, B upper right, C lower right. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within them, in reading order: the panel letter "A", the label "C.br." on a leader running from drawing A, the panel letter "B", the vertical scale bar at the left lettered "5.mm" at the top and "0" at the foot, and the panel letter "C". All are hand-lettered in a sloping style; the scale bar's "0" is a small circle. The drawing letters the label "C.br." with a final stop where the caption has "C.br"; as printed. The "=" sign in the caption is printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. The species heading "Marrus orthocanna" has a single "n" in "-canna", unlike "Marrus orthocannoides" above. The synonym line "Stephanomia orthocanna Kramp, 1942" is set flush left in smaller italic type, immediately below the "Text-figure 30" line.]

<<<PAGE pdf=71 file=page_071.txt>>>
[PAGE 66]
[RUNNING HEAD] 66	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
c.d
c.l
c.ped
c.v
5mm
5mm
A
B

FIG. 30.   Marrus orthocanna (Kramp). Nectophore
A, lateral view; B, upper view
c.d = dorsal, c.l = lateral, and c.v = ventral radial canals; c.ped = pedicular canal.
[/FIGURE]

Genus: MOSERIA gen. n.

Monotypic genus for Stephanomia convoluta   Moser, 1925.

As Moser (1925) suspected the type species has no close link with other species for which the name Stephanomia has been used.

A genus with only one little known antarctic species whose nectophores are exceptionally thin in comparison with length and breadth. The pneumatophore is of peculiar construction, consisting of two chambers besides the pneumatosaccus. The tentilla are involucrate and unicornuate, as in Halistemma.

At the time of going to press, when morphological research had to be terminated, it was thought that the material of Moseria available indicated the existence of two species. Unfortunately, the bulk of this material, whose generic identity is certain, is in a very poor state of preservation.

Moseria convoluta (Moser, 1925)
Plate XIII, figures 4–10

Stephanomia convoluta Moser, 1925

The pneumatophore has no marked pedicel, and consists of the pneumatosaccus, a basal and a lateral chamber, all three intercommunicating, but cut off from the stem cavity.

Nectophores (text-fig. 31):   Up to 15 mm × 16 mm, flat, heart shaped with deep apical incision at point of attachment, which is by a strong and broad muscular lamella which passes round the adcauline side like a pair of callipers. The upper side is smaller in area than the under side so that the two narrow oblique lateral facets give a bevelled appearance to the sides. One of two young necto-

[NOTE: the folio 66 is at the outer (left) edge of the running head. Text-fig. 30 occupies the upper 40% of the page as two drawings, A at the left and B at the right. Unlike the other figures in this range its lettering is set in ordinary printer's type rather than hand-lettered. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] above is all the text printed within the drawings, in reading order: "c.d" at the left of drawing A and "c.l", "c.ped", "c.v" on leaders at its right; the vertical scale bar between the two drawings lettered "5mm" (reading bottom-to-top) which belongs to A; a second vertical scale bar lettered "5mm" at the left of drawing B; the panel letter "A" at the foot of the left drawing and "B" at the right of the right-hand drawing. In the line "Monotypic genus for Stephanomia convoluta   Moser, 1925." there is a wide printed gap between "convoluta" and "Moser"; it is preserved above as three spaces. "MOSERIA" in the genus heading is bold italic capitals. The synonym line "Stephanomia convoluta Moser, 1925" is set flush left in smaller type below the "Plate XIII, figures 4–10" line. The "=" signs in the caption are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. The page ends with the broken word "necto-" (continuing on the next page).]

<<<PAGE pdf=72 file=page_072.txt>>>
[PAGE 67]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTLMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	67

[FIGURE]
r.o.l
1mm

FIG. 31.   Moseria convoluta (Moser). A young nectophore, 'Discovery' St. 1203, viewed
from above, × 24
r.o.l = oro-lateral ridge.
[/FIGURE]

phores was found to have no radial canals, and in the other they appeared to be growing out from the pedicular canal. There is an oro-lateral ridge, clearly visible only in early growth-stages of the nectophore. The nectosac is Y-shaped.

Gastrozooid:   Up to 9 mm long, with a very short peduncle and numerous liver-stripes.

Tentacle:   The tentilla described and figured by Moser (1925) did not belong to this species. Both activated and non-activated tentilla of another type have been found in abundance on a specimen from 'Discovery' Station 1283. In early growth stages they are rod-like. In fully developed stages the involucrum is turned back along the pedicel – possibly a post-mortem effect. In the middle stages the involucrum covers one or two of the seven to eight coils of the unicornuate cnidoband, which in early stages can be seen to lap round three sides of the central tube. When coiling up takes place the tube is found on the inner side. It is thin walled with a large lumen. After activation it is found to have lost its lumen, to have shortened up and to be thick-walled. Cnidoband and terminal filament about 2·5 mm length. There are larger lateral nematocysts in the first three turns.

Palpons:   8·5 mm–10 mm length, 2–2·5 mm–5 mm diameter, without pedicel, drawn out into a short distal point, with palpacle.

Bracts (Pl. XIII, figs. 9, 10):   These are well represented by Moser (1925, Taf. XXXI) and serve as a useful criterion in identification since they differ from those in the next species. Up to 6 mm length, broadest at one-third of length from attachment, which is by a broad vertical lamella that passes round the base on either side. The terminal part, divided by a transverse ridge on the upper side from the rest of the bract is bevelled off to a point on the under margin to form a new nematocyst battery on the end of the bracteal canal. A longitudinal pad of nematocysts stretches from this point to the transverse ridge.

Gonodendra:   Male gonodendra 3 mm long, irregularly branched bearing more than eighty gonophores. Male gonophores (ripe) have a pedicel 1·7 mm long and measure 1·0 mm × 0·68 mm. In them the radial canal are reduced to two or three. The female gonophores have four radial canals,

[NOTE: printed folio 67 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 72, so the established offset of −5 holds. The running head is printed "SYSTLMATIC SECTION" — an L where "SYSTEMATIC" requires an E. Verified at 9× magnification: the letter has only a foot-serif and no middle or top bar, and is unmistakably different from the E in "SECTION" on the same line. Transcribed as printed, not corrected. Text-fig. 31 occupies the upper 40% of the page: a single line drawing of a nectophore seen from above. The only text printed inside the drawing is the leader label "r.o.l" at its upper right and the vertical scale bar at its left lettered "1mm" (reading bottom-to-top); both are hand-lettered, unlike the type-set caption. No description of the illustration is given here by design. In the caption the multiplication sign before 24 is a printed × glyph, and the "=" in the lettering key is a printed double-stroke equals. Decimal points in measurements are printed as raised middot (2·5, 8·5, 1·7, 1·0, 0·68) and are transcribed as middots. In the last paragraph "the radial canal are reduced" is printed thus, with the singular "canal" and plural verb — the author's own error, left uncorrected. No printed square brackets occur on this page. The page ends mid-sentence with a comma.]

<<<PAGE pdf=73 file=page_073.txt>>>
[PAGE 68]
[RUNNING HEAD] 68	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

measure up to 1·34 mm × 1·09 mm, and have shorter pedicels measuring up to 0·6 mm in length. It has not been ascertained whether the female gonophores are borne on gonodendra.

Genus: NANOMIA A. Agassiz, 1865
Type species Nanomia cara A. Agassiz (1865).
Agalmopsis Sars, 1846
Anthemodes Haeckel, 1869

The genus contains two species of small, brightly pigmented Agalmidae with unicornuate tentilla provided at the base with an involucre. The arrangement of the gonodendra is characteristic, male and female alternating on either side in pairs at the bases of palpons.

The name Nanomia cara first appeared in print on page 181 of the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History IX, for May 1863 (see p. 193 for date) in a résumé of the proceedings. This use of the name, without proper description or drawings, is insufficient to identify the species and constitutes a nomen nudum. Nanomia cara should date from 1865.

Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje, 1841)
Plate X, figures 1–10; Plate XIV,
figure 9; text-figures 32–6

Physsophora bijuga Delle Chiaje, 1841
Anthemodes canariensis Haeckel, 1869; Chun, 1888a
Halistemma picta Metschnikoff, 1870; Chun, 1888a
Stephanomia (Anthemodes) canariensis Metschnikoff, 1874
Stephanomia pictum Metschnikoff, 1874
Halistemma tergestinum Claus, 1878
Agalmopsis fragile Fewkes, 1882
Anthemodes picta Haeckel, 1888b
Halistemma fragile Haeckel, 1888b
Cupulita picta Haeckel, 1888b; Bedot, 1896
Cupulita tergestina Haeckel, 1888b
Cupulita fragilis Haeckel, 1888b
Cupulita canariensis Haeckel, 1888b; Bedot, 1896
Anthemodes ordinata Haeckel, 1888b; Bedot, 1896
Cupulita (Halistemma) pieta Chun, 1891
Cupulita bijuga Schneider, 1898
Anthemodes moseri Agassiz & Mayer, 1902
Stephanomia bijuga Bigelow 1911b
Nanomia bijuga Totton, 1954

[FIGURE]
1
2
3
4
5
6
4mm
7
A
8
B

FIG. 32.   Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)
A, the nectosome to show the inter-locking of the nectophores; B, the stem of the nectosome to show arrangement of the muscular lamellae. The order of the nectophores starting from the apical one on the right is indicated by a numeral placed opposite to the origin of the pedicular canals. Camera lucida sketches of living animals at Villefranche.
[/FIGURE]

The principal published figures of the whole animal are those of Metschnikoff (1870); Claus (1878); Chun (1891); Agassiz & Mayer (1902); Bigelow (1911b) and Kawamura (1911b).

Common in the Mediterranean; and in the Gulf of California (personal communication: Dr. Ahlström).

[NOTE: printed folio 68 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 73, offset −5 holds. Layout: the page is set in two columns down to about four-fifths of its depth, then reverts to full measure. Text-fig. 32 occupies the whole right column from the head of the page down to its caption, so it is transcribed after the complete left column and before the two full-measure paragraphs at the foot, which are the last matter on the page in reading order. The text printed inside the drawing, in reading order, is the numerals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 running down beside drawing B (1 at the top right, 8 at the foot), the vertical scale bar lettered "4mm" (reading bottom-to-top) between the two drawings, the panel letter "A" at the lower left of the left drawing and "B" at the lower right of the right drawing. Nothing is recorded here about what the drawing shows. A printed misprint is transcribed as printed and not corrected: in the synonymy "Cupulita (Halistemma) pieta Chun, 1891" is printed "pieta" for "picta" — verified at 12× magnification, the third letter is an unmistakable "e" with its crossbar, not a "c". "Stephanomia bijuga Bigelow 1911b" has no comma before the date, unlike every other entry in the list; transcribed as printed. Decimal points are printed as raised middots (1·34, 1·09, 0·6). "Genus: NANOMIA" is set with a space before the colon in the original, and NANOMIA is bold italic capitals. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=74 file=page_074.txt>>>
[PAGE 69]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	69

[FIGURE]
0·5MM
A
B

FIG. 33.   Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje). Young nectophore
A, ventral view to show region of attachment, radial and pedicular canals; B, dorsal view of same to
show ridges, × 42 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 6)
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
c
vk1
vk2
d
a
b
A
c
a
b
r.l
p.w
B
c
a
b
C
c
a
b
D
4 mm

FIG. 34.   Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)
Four views of full grown nectophores (Villefranche specimens) of the auriculate variety.
A, fronto-lateral view; B, lateral view; C, view from above; D, ostio-superior view. Nectophore A is from
one specimen (B.M. Reg. No. 1953.7.2.45); B–D from another (B.M. Reg. No. 1953.9.23.604)
a–d = junctions of ridges. Junctions a, b, d, found only in auriculate varieties; p.w = wedge process;
r.l = lateral ridge; vk1, vk2 = vertical ridges named by Claus (1878).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 69 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 74, offset −5 holds. The running head is printed correctly "SYSTEMATIC" here, unlike PDF p. 72 where the same head is set "SYSTLMATIC". This page carries no body text at all — only the two text-figures and their captions. The lettering listed inside each [FIGURE] block is exactly the text printed within the drawings, in reading order (top to bottom, left to right), and nothing else; no account of what the drawings depict is given. For text-fig. 33 the only lettering inside the drawings is the hand-lettered vertical scale bar "0·5MM" at the left (the "MM" in small capitals, the decimal a raised middot) and the panel letters A and B at the lower right of each drawing. For text-fig. 34 the four panels each carry hand-lettered ridge-junction letters: panel A (upper left) c, vk1, vk2, d, a, b and the panel letter A; panel B (upper right) c, a, b, r.l, p.w and the panel letter B; panel C (lower left) c, a, b and the panel letter C; panel D (lower right) c, a, b and the panel letter D; below the two lower panels a horizontal scale bar lettered "4 mm". In the drawings "vk1" and "vk2" are lettered with superscript 1 and 2 (superscript numerals cannot be represented in plain text and are written on the line here); in the type-set key at the foot they appear as "vk¹, vk²" in italic with superscript figures. The "=" signs in the key are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. Registration numbers verified digit by digit at 3·2× magnification: 1953.7.2.45 and 1953.9.23.604. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=75 file=page_075.txt>>>
[PAGE 70]
[RUNNING HEAD] 70	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Size:   10–45 cm long, according to state of contraction.

Pneumatophore:   1·8–2·0 mm long, 1–2 mm diameter. Eight septa. Light brown pigment spots at apex, which is surrounded by port-wine coloured polygonal cells. A temporary apical opening may appear.

Nectosome (text-fig. 32):   One-fifth of total length. Nectophores in two rows of eight to twenty-five each; square in shape when viewed from abaxial or axial sides; length of sides 2–3·5 mm, with ear-like upper corners (text-fig. 33). The nectophores are flattened from stem-side to ostial side, an important field-mark. The upper outer angles are sometimes cut off by a ridge (text-fig. 34).

[FIGURE]
gz6
t
6♂
♀
ps
p
♂
5♀
♂
p
4♂
♀
p
3♀
♂
p
2♂
♀
p
1♀
♂

FIG. 35.   Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)
The whole internode shown in part in text-figure 36,
× 15.6. The proximal part lies below. p = primary series
palpons, or base from which a palpon has become detached; p.s = the first of a secondary series of palpons;
t = tentacle; gz6 = gastrozooid (distal end cut off);
♂, ♀ = male and female gonodendra.
[/FIGURE]

Siphosome:   Stem slender, highly contractile.

Gastrozooids:   Twenty-four fully formed on stem 45 cm length, 3–6 mm in length. Cnidoband of tentilla 8 mm length, 2 mm diameter, in three coils, the upper half covered by an involucrum.

Palpons:   Chun (1888a) gave a budding formula. There are six in a primary series, but others are budded subsequently. Arising from their bases are pairs of branching gonodendra (text-fig. 35).

Gonophores:   Sexes alternate on each side of the pairs of gonodendra (text-fig. 36).

Bracts: Two categories: (1) large single, at base of each gastrozooid, thin leaf-like with three con-

[NOTE: printed folio 70 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 75, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 35 occupies the middle half of the page, between the "Nectosome" paragraph and the "Siphosome" paragraph, so it stands where it is placed above; its caption is set in a narrow measure centred under the drawing. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] is exactly the hand-lettered text printed within the drawing, in reading order from the top of the drawing downwards, and nothing else; the illustration itself is not described. Where the printed lettering uses the astronomical/biological sex signs they are transcribed as the Unicode characters ♂ (male) and ♀ (female), matching the printed glyphs; in the drawing these are lettered immediately after the numeral of the series, so "6♂", "5♀", "4♂", "3♀", "2♂", "1♀" down the left side of the stem, with unnumbered ♂ and ♀ signs down the right side. "gz6" and "gz⁶" are the same label: in the drawing the 6 is hand-lettered raised, and in the type-set caption it is a superscript figure; superscripts cannot be represented in plain text and are written on the line here. In the caption the magnification is printed "× 15.6" with an ordinary baseline full stop, whereas all the measurements in the body text use a raised middot (1·8–2·0, 2–3·5); both are transcribed as printed. The "=" signs in the caption key are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. In the caption the abbreviation is set "p.s" in italic, though the same label is lettered "ps" without a point inside the drawing; both are transcribed as they appear. In the last line "(1)" is the author's own parenthesised numeral, not a marker. No printed square brackets occur on this page. The page ends with the broken word "con-".]

<<<PAGE pdf=76 file=page_076.txt>>>
[PAGE 71]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	71

spicuous cylindrical teeth at the distal end (Pl. X, figs. 5, 6); (2) leaf-like, shorter and wider, the three terminal processes not so distinct (Pl. X, figs. 7, 8). Some are spear shaped. Bracts attached in four longitudinal rows at sides of stem.

Colour:   There are small, scattered, port-wine coloured blotches or flecks in the endoderm of both nectosome and siphosome.

Presence in the deep-scattering layer

There is, according to E. G. Barham (1963), a striking relation between the depths of recorded deep-scattering layers of the ocean waters and concentration of siphonophores. The abstract of his interesting paper reads: 'Bathyscaphe divers in the San Diego Trough have revealed a close spatial relation between siphonophores and the deep-scattering layer as recorded by precision depth-recording echo-sounders. Measurements of gas-bubbles* within the floatation structures of Nanomia bijuga captured in a closing-net in an ascended scattering layer indicated that these are very close to the resonant size for 12/kcy/sec. sound. Because such organisms are capable of making prolonged vertical migrations, and are widespread geographically, they are very probably the major causes of stratified zones of scattering throughout the oceans of the world.'

Specific identifications need confirmation.

[FOOTNOTE] * Dr. Barham (personal communication) and colleagues found concentrations of CO up to 90% on analysis of the gas.

[FIGURE]
♂
♂
♀
BR
♂
♀
BR
♂
BR
p5
p4
p3
p6
♂
BR
♂
BR
♂
♀
♀
aboral
BR

FIG. 36.   Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)
Part of an internode of the stem showing alternating ♂ and ♀ gonodendra arising from the bases of a series of palpons, × 39. From Oak Bay Boat House, Victoria, B.C., March 16, 1959; W. G. Fields & A. R. Fontaine Coll.
BR = bract; p3 – p6 = palpons of primary series (scars of detachment).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 71 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 76, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 36 is a single wide drawing occupying the lower half of the page below the footnote rule, with its caption beneath. The tokens listed inside [FIGURE] are exactly the hand-lettered text printed within the drawing and nothing else — the illustration itself is not described. Because the drawing is wide and the labels are scattered across it rather than arranged in lines, they are listed in approximate reading order (top to bottom, left to right within a band); the full inventory is: the male sign ♂ seven times, the female sign ♀ four times, "BR" six times, the four palpon labels "p6", "p5", "p4", "p3", and "aboral" beside a horizontal arrow at the lower right. The sex signs are transcribed as the Unicode characters ♂ and ♀, matching the printed glyphs, both in the drawing and in the type-set caption where they also appear. The palpon labels are lettered with a lowercase p and a raised numeral — verified at 14× magnification that the letter has a descender and so is "p", not "P"; superscripts cannot be represented in plain text and the figures are written on the line here, as also for the caption's italic "p3 – p6", which is printed with superscript 3 and 6 and with spaces round the rule. The footnote is keyed by an asterisk after "gas-bubbles" in the quoted abstract and is set in smaller type at the foot, above the figure; it is placed at the foot of the text block here, not inline. In the footnote the percent sign is a large old-style glyph preceded by a thin space ("90 %"); it is transcribed closed up as "90%". The quotation of Barham's abstract is enclosed in single quotation marks, opening before "Bathyscaphe" and closing after "world." "(2)" early in the first paragraph is the author's own parenthesised numeral continuing the enumeration begun on the preceding page, not a marker. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=77 file=page_077.txt>>>
[PAGE 72]
[RUNNING HEAD] 72	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
B
A
R.ap.-lat.
C.radlat
R.vert.lat.
Nem.p.ect
C
C.rad.lat
0	[illegible] mm

FIG. 37.   Nanomia cara (A. Agassiz)
Nectophores from an Irish specimen. A, B, C, upper, abaxial and lateral views, × 12
C.rad.lat = lateral radial canal; Nem.p.ect = ectodermal patch of nematocysts; R.ap.lat = apico-lateral ridge; R.vert.lat = lateral vertical ridge (from Totton, 1954, fig. 19).
[/FIGURE]

Nanomia cara A. Agassiz, 1865
Plate XIV, figures 1–6

Agalmopsis elegans Sars, 1846 (partim: non form B = Agalma elegans)
Stephanomia cara Metschnikoff, 1874; Bigelow, 1911b
Halistemma elegans Claus, 1878
Nanomia cara Fewkes, 1880a; Totton, 1954
Cupulita sarsii Haeckel, 1888b; Browne, 1900
Cupulita cara Haeckel, 1888b; Romer, 1901; Vanhoeffen, 1906

This little known unicornuate species was beautifully figured by its discoverer G. O. Sars in 1846 as Agalmopsis elegans, which name has since been restricted to a species, part of the tricornuate tentacle of which was included by Sars as 'form B' (see Pl. XIV, figs. 7, 8)

The species can be distinguished from N. bijuga by its nectophores (text-fig. 37) but to what extent the two species differ in other respects has not been determined.

Sars's specimen measured 51·5 cm in length, for 10·6 cm of which the nectosome accounts. The nectophores are flattened somewhat in the horizontal plane, whilst those of N. bijuga are compressed in the vertical one. The largest of Sars's specimens had fourteen or fifteen pairs of nectophores.

An analysis of the animal's locomotion, together with some good figures was published by G. O. Mackie in January 1964.

[NOTE: printed folio 72 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 77, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 37 occupies the upper half of the page: three drawings, A at the upper left, B at the upper right, C below B at the right, with its caption centred beneath. The items listed inside [FIGURE] are exactly the hand-lettered text printed within the drawings, in reading order (B and the panel letter A at the top, then the leader labels round drawing C, then the scale bar), and nothing else; the illustrations are not described. Two of the hand lettered labels need comment. (i) The upper of the two radial-canal labels on drawing C reads "C.radlat" as printed: at 14× magnification no point is discernible between "rad" and "lat", whereas the second, lower-right label on the same drawing is unmistakably "C.rad.lat" with a clear point, as is the type-set key in the caption. The upper label is transcribed as it appears rather than normalised to match. (ii) The scale bar below drawing C is lettered "0" at its left end and "mm" at its right end, with a character immediately before "mm" that has printed as broken fragments only and cannot be read; it is recorded as [illegible]. The bar carries two intermediate tick marks. A single tab separates the two ends of the scale label above. In the caption key the abbreviations are set in italic and the "=" signs are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph; note that the caption gives "R.ap.lat" and "R.vert.lat" while the drawing letters them "R.ap.-lat." and "R.vert.lat.", with a hyphen and terminal points respectively — both forms are transcribed as they occur. The first body paragraph ends "figs. 7, 8)" with no full stop after the closing parenthesis; printed thus. Decimal points in the measurements are raised middots (51·5, 10·6). No printed square brackets occur on this page; the parenthesis "(partim: non form B = Agalma elegans)" in the synonymy uses round brackets.]

<<<PAGE pdf=78 file=page_078.txt>>>
[PAGE 73]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	73

Genus: LYCHNAGALMA Haeckel, 1888
Type species L. vesicularia Haeckel, 1888b.
? L. utricularia (Claus, 1879)

Agalmidae with multicornuate tentilla consisting of involucrate cnidoband, terminal ampulla and a corona of eight radial horns or filaments.

Lychnagalma utricularia (Claus, 1879)
Plate XVI, figures 1–7

Agalmopsis utricularia Claus, 1879

This very remarkable little agalmid was found several times at Messina by Claus, who described and figured it in some detail in a way that inspires full confidence, although his description and figures of the nectophores are difficult to follow, but detailed and painstaking. No one else has reported finding specimens.

Nectophores:   Claus's ridge V K2 does not join V K1 (Pl. XVI, figs. 3, 4, 6) as it does in Nanomia bijuga. These two ridges are shown clearly in Haeckel's (1888b) figures of his new species L. vesicularia, but only doubtful reliance should be placed on them as he may have been unduly influenced by a fancied resemblance of his Ceylonese specimen to Claus's.

Gastrozooids and tentacles:   The peduncles are exceptionally long, and the type of tentillum unique. The red cnidoband forms seven or eight spiral turns, the four or five proximal ones lying transversely, all enclosed in an egg-shaped involucrum. The proximal part consists of small cnidocysts, which are flanked by larger ensiform ones. The end of each tentillum forms a large egg-shaped vesicle 0·79 mm × 0·52 mm in size. From its base arise no less than eight fine terminal filaments which are carried upright (Pl. XVI, fig. 2).

Gonophores: The male gonophores 0·7–0·8 mm long have a distinct umbrella. With the female ones they are borne at the bases of the eight or nine palpons that occur between successive gastrozooids.

Bracts:   Broad in proportion to length, which seems to be 1·5 mm. There are two or three distal points.

Lychnagalma vesicularia Haeckel, 1888

? L. utricularia (Claus, 1879)

A doubtful species. It is not clear from Haeckel's description whether vesicularia differs from utricularia. It is to be doubted whether much reliance can be placed on Haeckel's beautifully idealized figures, or the record for geographical distribution.

Genus: ERENNA Bedot, 1904
Monotypic genus for Erenna richardi Bedot, 1904.

Nothing has been published about Erenna for thirty-seven years. The material on which its type species was based consisted of six remarkable, detached tentacles, taken between Portugal and the Azores, attached to the rope of a fish-trap. With the preserved specimens were included some large, detached gastrozooids. The animals themselves had been torn away.

A fragmentary siphonophore bearing what appear to be growth stages of such tentacles was taken in the East Indies by 'Siboga' at the beginning of the present century, and described and figured by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908).

Three specimens of this type of siphonophore, exhibiting the basal parts of such tentacles have been

6

[NOTE: printed folio 73 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 78, offset −5 holds. The bare "6" on the last line is a printer's signature mark at the foot of the page in folio position, not a page number; it is kept as printed. No printed square brackets occur on this page: the two query marks that open the lines "? L. utricularia (Claus, 1879)" are bare printed question marks with no enclosing brackets — verified at 9× magnification — so they are the author's own doubt-marks and are transcribed as plain "?". They are not transcriber markers, and they are not the bracketed "[?]" form used elsewhere in this book. "LYCHNAGALMA" and "ERENNA" in the genus headings are bold italic capitals; "Lychnagalma utricularia" and "Lychnagalma vesicularia" in the species headings are bold italic. In the Nectophores paragraph Claus's ridge names are printed "V K²" and "V K¹" with superscript figures and a space between the V and the K; superscripts cannot be represented in plain text and the figures are written on the line here as "V K2" and "V K1". Decimal points in the measurements are raised middots (0·79, 0·52, 0·7–0·8, 1·5). "Gonophores:" is followed by a single space, unlike the wider printed gap after the other side-headings, which is preserved here as three spaces. The page ends mid-sentence after "have been".]

<<<PAGE pdf=79 file=page_079.txt>>>
[PAGE 74]
[RUNNING HEAD] 74	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

taken by 'Discovery II', the rest of the tentacles having been torn away, probably through their attachment to nets or trawls. The third 'Discovery' specimen was fortunately accompanied by twenty-seven large detached nectophores. This lucky chance has made it possible to prepare a description of a reconstruction.

Fragmentary specimens were recorded by Bigelow (1911b) from the Galapagos Islands, and by Moser (1925), in the Gulf of Gascony (Bay of Biscay).

In April 1963, M. Gostan brought back to the Station Zoologique at Villefranche from a cruise between Monaco and Corsica a small piece of a pink tentacle that one of his companions suggested might be part of a siphonophore and that came up with one of his water-samples. Having examined it and discovered its identity I obtained the information from him that these specimens were constantly found but were regarded as merely a nuisance. So the species is evidently common in the Mediterranean, though efforts to find specimens in the spring of 1964 were unsuccessful.

Erenna richardi Bedot, 1904
Plate XIV, figures 10, 11

Erenna bedoti Lens & Riemsdijk, 1908

This rare siphonophore, an outline of the steps in the discovery of which has been given under the genus, has a quantity of black pigment in its endoderm, probably derived from feeding on pigmented, deep-sea fish.

Two specimens were taken by R.R.S. 'Discovery II' on August 21/22, 1959, in a 2 m, closing, young-fish trawl, fished at 1,200 m at Station 4230 (12° 30'W, 40° 09' 30"N). On September 23, 1959, one larger and more complete animal was taken at Station 4255 in the Isaac Kidd mid-water trawl fished at 1,000 m for 2½ hours from 36° 31'N, 11° 24'W to 36° 22'N, 11° 15' 30"W.

A fragmentary specimen of a siphosome accompanied by three detached nectophores was taken in May 1937 by 'Discovery II' at Station 2061 at a depth of from 1,900–1,500 m.

The species probably occurs in Californian waters too. Dr. Ahlstrom of La Jolla has taken some thin nectophores with unlooped, pigmented lateral canals which appear to belong to this species; and Dr. William Beebe took nectophores of this type in deep water off Bermuda. Lens & van Riemsdijk figured (1908, Pl. XI, fig. 87) a young nectophore.

Nectophores (text-figs 38, 39):   There is a muscle-free strip of the nectosac above and below the proximal, adcauline part of the unlooped pigmented lateral radial canals, and there may be a long, fine 'horn' canal at the outer end of this part. Nectophores measure up to 32 mm × 25 mm × 2 mm.

Bracts:   Elongated, up to 20 mm length, 3 mm broad and 1 mm thick, with a pair of short, hook-like processes 7 mm from the proximal end, and another pair at a distance of 3 mm from the distal end. Bracts commonly measure 12 mm × 4·5 mm. A characteristic feature is a terminal sphere of tissue containing nematocysts. The muscular lamella is attached to most of the length of the bract. The bracteal canal runs close to the adaxial surface except for the terminal 1 mm, which leaves the surface. The bracts are arranged in four rows on either side and five or six to a row in each cormidium.

Monotypic genus for P. vanhoeffeni Moser, 1925.

Nematocysts:   Two egg-shaped nematocysts that had been discharged from one of the terminal batteries of a bract measured 70μ × 23μ. The thread appeared to be ridged, but no spines could be seen with a ⅙ inch objective.

Tentacles:   Leloup (1936) reported that 'Princesse Alice II' took a tentacle 18 cm long on a 'palencre' (a long line) coming up from a depth of 2,032 m in the region of the Canaries, and numerous fragments also on a cable that had been down to 2,000 m in the Gulf of Gascony.

Through the courtesy of M. Testa of the Institut Océanographique, Monaco, I have been able to re-examine both Bedot's (1904) original material and also that recorded by Leloup (1936). The

[NOTE: printed folio 74 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 79, offset −5 holds. This page carries no figures. One line of printed type in the middle of the page — "Monotypic genus for P. vanhoeffeni Moser, 1925." — is cancelled by a single heavy wavy stroke drawn through it in ink. The stroke tapers and is unmistakably hand-drawn, not a printed rule; the printed line itself is set in the same type as the surrounding text, between the end of the Bracts paragraph and the start of the Nematocysts paragraph, where it does not belong (it names a genus not under discussion here). The printed words are transcribed above; the italic epithet is partly buried under the stroke but reads as "vanhoeffeni" at 14× magnification. The trailing full stop is followed by a small ink flourish. Numerals in this page's station data were read digit by digit at 3× magnification: Station 4230 (12° 30'W, 40° 09' 30"N), Station 4255, Station 2061, 1,200 m, 1,000 m, 1,900–1,500 m, 2,032 m, 2,000 m, and the co-ordinates 36° 31'N, 11° 24'W to 36° 22'N, 11° 15' 30"W. Note that in the Station 4230 parenthesis the longitude is printed before the latitude; transcribed in the printed order. The degree signs are printed with a space on either side, the minute and second marks as prime and double prime with no space before the hemisphere letter. Two stacked vulgar fractions occur, "2½ hours" and "⅙ inch objective"; they are printed as one-over-two and one-over-six with a horizontal rule and are represented here by the Unicode fraction characters ½ and ⅙. The micron symbol in "70μ × 23μ" is printed as a Greek mu set close up against the figure. "×" throughout is a printed multiplication sign. "Nectophores (text-figs 38, 39)" is printed "text-figs" with no point after "figs". Decimal point in 4·5 is a raised middot. No printed square brackets occur on this page; the only square brackets above are this note's own.]

<<<PAGE pdf=80 file=page_080.txt>>>
[PAGE 75]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 4 AGALMIDAE	75

[FIGURE]
s.m.f
c.horn
5mm

FIG. 38.   Erenna richardi Bedot
Reconstruction of a nectophore from 'Discovery' St. 2061, S. Tropical Atlantic, × 3·5.
s.m.f = muscle free strip; c.horn = horn canal
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
5mm

FIG. 39.   Erenna richardi Bedot
Upper view of a nectophore, 'Discovery' St. 4255.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 75 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 80, offset −5 holds. This page carries no body text at all — only the two text-figures and their captions. The items listed inside each [FIGURE] block are exactly the text printed within the drawings and nothing else; the illustrations are not described. Text-fig. 38 (upper half of the page) carries only two hand-lettered leader labels, "s.m.f" and "c.horn", and a horizontal scale bar at the lower left lettered "5mm" above the bar. Text-fig. 39 (lower half) carries no lettering except a horizontal scale bar at its lower left lettered "5mm" below the bar; it has no panel letters and no leader labels. In fig. 38's caption the magnification is printed "× 3·5." with a raised middot as the decimal point followed by a sentence-closing full stop — verified at 18× magnification that the two dots differ in height. The "=" signs in the caption key are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph, and the abbreviations "s.m.f" and "c.horn" are set in italic there. Station numbers verified digit by digit: St. 2061 and St. 4255. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=81 file=page_081.txt>>>
[PAGE 76]
[RUNNING HEAD] 76	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

structure of the tentilla, so well figured and described by Bedot, at first sight so remarkable, can be homologized with that of the early growth stage of a tentillum of Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni (text-fig. 44). Bedot's canal entodermal secondaire appears to be what I have called the diverticular canal. What is so characteristic of Erenna is the hypertrophy of the cnidoband, which must be a very formidable stinging organ, and the mass of vacuolated endoderm surrounding the canals. Leloup's tentacle material is entangled with masses of discharged nematocysts.

Family 5: PYROSTEPHIDAE

The characters of this family are those of the following genus, Pyrostephos Moser, 1925.

Moser's (1925) diagnosis of the genus – she unnecessarily erected a special family for it – is worthless: 'Nectosome long: Nectophores in more (?) than two rows. Siphosome long, with numerous oleocysts. Palpons wanting. Cormidia close together. Cnidosac diphyes-like, with a rope-like elastic band on either side. Terminal filament present.' The nectophores are not in more than two rows. The oleocysts are, as she suspected, the palpons. The two separated tentilla figured by Moser (1925, Pl. 30, fig. 6) do not belong to Pyrostephos, though the one shown in figure 7 does.

The characteristic features are as follows: Long nectosome (up to twenty pairs of nectophores). Lateral radial canals of nectosac arise separately from the dorsal and ventral canals, and have three lateral loops each. The ventral is straight or has a few minor bends; the dorsal has three or four more marked bends. The adaxial side of the nectosac lacks musculature and is deeply embayed towards the ostium, the embayment occupied by mesogloea. The inner ends of the pair of apico-lateral ridges usually make a sharp angle where bending of the wall takes place, just proximal to its bifurcation into the frontal and oro-lateral ridges. The gastrozooids have an almost cylindrical basigaster. Fifty or more tentilla to a tentacle. When fully formed the proximal part of the axial canal of the tentillum appears as a fine canal on one side of the widened diverticular canal that becomes the cavity of the saccus. The outer wall of the diverticular canal becomes the cnidoband. The bracts (23 × 15 mm) are three pointed, thick, flat below, conical above. Gonophores are budded one from another to form small gonodendra. Dioecious.

Genus: PYROSTEPHOS Moser, 1925
Monotypic genus for P. vanhoeffeni Moser, 1925

Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser, 1925
Plate XVI, figures 8–10

Parts of this Antarctic siphonophore were first taken on February 25, 1902, by members of the German Southpolar Expedition in longitude 90°E, just off the Antarctic Continent. They took in all sixteen imperfect specimens of the whole animal. A year later parts of the animal were being taken through bore-holes, in the ice of the Ross Sea by members of Scott's National Antarctic Expedition, and fragments have been taken repeatedly since, though no complete specimen is likely to have been preserved. The stem contracts violently on preservation and the appendages are mostly shed.

Mackintosh (1934) said that the species probably belonged only to Antarctic water, but occasionally strayed into sub-antarctic water. He found records of it everywhere from the Antarctic convergence to the most southerly 'Discovery' Stations in the Bellinghausen and Weddell Seas, but it was definitely more common in the colder than in the warmer parts of the Antarctic water. It seemed to be absent from the coastal regions of the South Orkneys, South Shetlands, and the Eastern Bellinghausen Sea. Mackintosh did not find any indications of a significant diurnal vertical migration.

[illegible: 2 lines]

[NOTE: printed folio 76 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 81, offset −5 holds. No figures on this page. Below the last paragraph, in the blank foot of the page, there are two very faint ghost lines of letter-forms marked [illegible: 2 lines] above. They are a faint set-off / bleed-through impression, not type printed on this page: the strokes are grey and broken, the baselines wander, and nothing in them can be read even at 3·5× magnification. A later reader should treat them as an artefact of the copy, not as text belonging to page 76. The family heading is printed "Family 5: PYROSTEPHIDAE" with the family name in bold roman capitals and a space before the colon in the original; the genus heading "PYROSTEPHOS" and the species heading "Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni" are bold italic. The printed brackets on this page are all round, not square: "(text-fig. 44)", "(1925)", "(?)" inside Moser's quoted diagnosis, "(1925, Pl. 30, fig. 6)", "(up to twenty pairs of nectophores)", "(23 × 15 mm)" and "(1934)". In particular the query "in more (?) than two rows" is printed inside round parentheses within the single-quoted quotation from Moser, so it is the author's own interpolation and not a transcriber marker; no printed square brackets occur anywhere on this page. Moser's diagnosis is quoted between single quotation marks, opening before "Nectosome" and closing after "present." The dashes round "she unnecessarily erected a special family for it" are printed as spaced en rules. The degree sign in "90°E" is printed close up with no space on either side, unlike the spaced degree signs on p. 74. "×" is a printed multiplication sign.]

<<<PAGE pdf=82 file=page_082.txt>>>
[PAGE 77]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 5 PYROSTEPHIDAE	77

[FIGURE]
c.r.d
c.r.l
l.d.s
r.a.l
r.f
r.o.l
A
5mm
r.f
r.a.l
l.d.f
r.o.l
B
r.o.l
r.f
r.a.l
C
l.d.l.m

FIG. 40.   Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser
Nectophore from 'Discovery' St. 1525 to show ridges and loops of the lateral radial canal. A, from above; B, ostial view;
C, lateral view
c.r.d = dorsal radial canal; c.r.l = lateral radial canal; l.d.f = final downward lateral loop; l.d.l.m = main downward lateral loop; l.d.s = small downward lateral loop; r.a.l = apico-lateral ridge; r.o.l = oro-lateral ridge; r.f = frontal ridge.
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
c.r.d
c.p
a.f
c.r.l
c.r.l
f
c.r.v

FIG. 41.   Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser
Nectophore, adaxial view, 'Discovery' St. 331, × 11
a.f = muscle-free area of nectosac wall; c.r.d, c.r.l, c.r.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals; c.p = pallial canal; f = fold in lateral wall of nectosac. The flag-line stops some 5 mm short of the fold.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 77 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 82, offset −5 holds. This page carries no body text at all — only the two text-figures and their captions. The items listed inside each [FIGURE] block are exactly the hand-lettered text printed within the drawings and nothing else; the illustrations are not described. Text-fig. 40 (upper third of the page) has three drawings: A occupying the left half, B at the upper right and C below B at the right. Its labels are listed above panel by panel — first the labels round A ("c.r.d", "c.r.l", "l.d.s" along the top, "r.a.l", "r.f", "r.o.l" lower down, the panel letter "A" at the lower left, and the horizontal scale bar lettered "5mm" above the bar, set between A and C), then those round B ("r.f", "r.a.l", "l.d.f", "r.o.l" and the panel letter "B"), then those round C ("r.o.l", "r.f", "r.a.l", the panel letter "C", and "l.d.l.m" below the drawing). Text-fig. 41 (lower two-thirds) is a single large drawing with seven leader labels: "c.r.d", "c.p", "a.f", "c.r.l" across the top, "c.r.l" again at the left, "f" at the right and "c.r.v" at the lower right; it has no panel letter and no scale bar. In both captions the abbreviations in the keys are set in italic and the "=" signs are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. Station numbers verified digit by digit: St. 1525 and St. 331. The caption of fig. 40 sets "C, lateral view" on a line of its own, centred, because the preceding line is full; that line break is kept. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=83 file=page_083.txt>>>
[PAGE 78]
[RUNNING HEAD] 78	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

The Greek generic name refers to its fancied resemblance to a fiery garland. It reaches a length probably of several metres.

Nothing descriptive has been published about it for thirty-five years, since Moser (1925) gave the first account of the species.

Colour:   The long stem is orange coloured, or vermilion when juvenile; the nectophores, pink when young, appear later on to be tinged with wine red colour, their ostia with carmine; the gastrozooids are golden red with fiery red mouths. The cnidosacs are fiery red. A colour-note by Mr. Marr on a specimen taken at 'Discovery' Station 1989 off South Georgia at a depth between 1,500 m and 1,200 m stated that the gastrozooids were scarlet, transparent, and all separated when taken, and that the nectophores were transparent. Moser described the oleocysts (palpons) as brown-red. A colour-note accompanying a specimen taken by 'William Scoresby' at St. 555 said that the 'oleocysts were translucent, but appeared vermilion because of the colour of the stem, the nectophores pale pink and the stolon vermilion'.

Pneumatophore:   Up to 8 mm in length, slender, tapering below. No pigment at the apex, generally broken off when preserved (see Moser, 1925, Pl. 30, fig. 2).

Nectosome:   Relatively very long; two rows of nectophores, number uncertain but certainly up to twenty pairs and probably many more. Nectophores at least 20 mm in length, carried on rather narrow muscular lamellae, which are inserted into a long-bow shaped pallial canal that lies in a groove on the adaxial side of the nectophore. From a point almost at its base runs a very short and inconspicuous pedicular canal to the nectosac. This canal bifurcates almost at once to form the dorsal and ventral radial canals. The two lateral radial canals arise separately from the dorsal canal and take an outward and ascending course on the adaxial nectosac-wall to cross over onto the lateral wall of the same. Here each forms first a small downward loop (text-fig. 40A) and then the main downward, lateral loop (text-fig. 40C). After crossing under a fold in the lateral wall (text-fig. 41) each makes a final downward loop (text-fig. 40B) to run to the circular canal round the ostium. The ventral radial canal (text-fig. 41) is generally straight, but may have a few small bends. The dorsal canal usually has three or four more marked bends on the upper part of the nectosac (text-fig. 40A).

Moser said she had refrained from attempting to describe the nectophores because of their complexity and had relied on drawings to give the essential points. Her beautifully lithographed plate 29 (see Pl. XVI, figs. 8–10) was apparently based on colour-sketches and notes made by Vanhoeffen. But its figures of nectophores are difficult to recognize and give a very inadequate and often erroneous idea of their structure, which is, admittedly, difficult to represent in drawings. But once Moser's terminology of orientation is understood, her description of the nectosac and radial canals read in conjunction with my figures will give the specialist a fairly adequate conception of their peculiarities. Moser calls the upper side of the nectophore, which I call dorsal 'ventral' and the adaxial side 'oben'. The chief peculiarity is the inpushing of the adaxial side of the median part of the nectosac, and the absence of musculature from that part of its wall (text-fig. 42). The condition found in this area is reminiscent of the lens-shaped mass of jelly that projects inwards from the exumbrella of many medusae into the base of the manubrium. A similar arrangement is found in Bargmannia elongata. An absence of musculature in this area is found also in some other siphonophores such as species of Marrus.

Nectophores:   The ridges can be identified and named with reference to the figures of nectophores of Nanomia cara (text-fig. 37).

The oral end of the nectophore can obviously move in towards the hemispherical plug of mesogloea on the adaxial side when contraction for propulsion takes place. The oral end of the apico-lateral ridge makes a sharp angle for bending just proximal to its bifurcation into the frontal and orolateral ridges. Seen in side-view the vertical-lateral ridge is much nearer the ostial end of the nectophore than in that of N. cara. Reference to text-figure 40C of Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni will make

[NOTE: printed folio 78 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 83, offset −5 holds. No figures, footnotes or marginalia on this page; it is solid text. Numerals verified digit by digit at 2·8–3× magnification: Station 1989, 1,500 m, 1,200 m, St. 555, 8 mm, 20 mm, plate 29, and the figure references 40A, 40B, 40C, 41, 42, 37. Note that the author writes the German zoologist's name "Vanhoeffen" here without a diaeresis, and that "orolateral" in the last paragraph is printed solid whereas "oro-lateral" is hyphenated in the caption on the facing page; both are transcribed as printed. Quoted matter uses single quotation marks throughout: the colour-note beginning 'oleocysts were translucent and ending vermilion', and the isolated words 'ventral', 'oben', 'Discovery' and 'William Scoresby'. The word "see" is italic inside "(see Moser, 1925, Pl. 30, fig. 2)" and "(see Pl. XVI, figs. 8–10)". Side-headings (Colour, Pneumatophore, Nectosome, Nectophores) are italic and followed by a colon and a wide printed gap, preserved here as three spaces. No printed square brackets occur on this page. The page ends mid-sentence after "will make".]

<<<PAGE pdf=84 file=page_084.txt>>>
[PAGE 79]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 5 PYROSTEPHIDAE	79

further description unnecessary. It is useful to have found a basic arrangement of the ridges of a physonect nectophore to which descriptions can refer.

Siphosome:   The large specimen figured by Moser shows the nectosome, which has lost its pneumatophore and the nectophores, as well as the siphosome which shows no gonophores.

The gastrozooids, when young, have an almost cylindrical basigaster and a conventional tentacle that springs from a point very close to the point of origin. The basigaster very often cannot be seen in preserved specimens, and most preserved gastrozooids lose the tentilla of their tentacles. For this reason large gastrozooids appear rather like palpons. Both Moser and myself nearly made this mistake. By dissection and section-cutting I have established the fact that the stem is not segmented as is usual in physonects with each segment terminating in a gastrozooid. In Pyrostephos there seems to be a continuous ventral line of budding of gastrozooids. A piece of a juvenile stem taken by 'Terra Nova' bore on each length of 1 mm no less than eleven or so gastrozooids, which fanned out on each side from the ventral surface.

The mature, spindle shaped gastrozooids measure about 15 mm × 2 mm, and consist of three sections: (1) the basigaster, the ectoderm of which is usually lost in preserved specimens, leaving the narrow endoderm to look like a peduncle; (2) the main stomach and (3) a proboscis. The three parts

[FIGURE]
A
B
ost
ost
5mm

FIG. 42.   Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser
Nectophore from 'Terra Nova' Exped. St. 282, to show nectosac
A, horizontal section; B, sagittal section. The finely pecked line on the adaxial side shows the non-muscular wall which is pushed in by a thick dome of mesogloea (stippled). ost = ostium.
[/FIGURE]

have lengths proportional to 6, 76 and 10. It can be seen at once on examination that there are some unusual features about their histology. Two kinds of lens-shaped or sub-spherical endodermal patches are visible through the stomach-wall, one transparent and a little larger than the other kind which appears darker than the rest of the endoderm. Inspection of sections and whole mounts of the endodermal wall with low magnification shows that it consists of four main types of cell. The endoderm is vacuolated, and scattered about are the larger transparent patches which are vacuoles about 0·07 mm in diameter. Each is surrounded by four or five smaller more irregularly vacuolated cells. In the interstices where several cell boundaries meet are small cylindrical cells which have produced

[NOTE: printed folio 79 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 84, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 42 sits in the middle of the page between two blocks of text and is transcribed in that position; drawing A is at the left, B at the right. The items listed inside [FIGURE] are exactly the hand-lettered text printed within the drawings and nothing else — the panel letters "A" and "B" at the top of each drawing, the leader label "ost" twice (once between the two drawings, once at the right of B), and the horizontal scale bar at the lower left lettered "5mm" below the bar. The illustrations are not described. In the sentence resuming after the figure, "have lengths proportional to 6, 76 and 10." the middle figure is printed "76", with no point, comma or space between the 7 and the 6, and no raised middot; verified at 12× magnification. It is transcribed exactly as printed and is not emended to "7·6" or any other value. Decimal point in 0·07 is a raised middot. "×" is a printed multiplication sign. "(1)", "(2)" and "(3)" are the author's own parenthesised enumeration, not markers. In the caption the abbreviation "ost" is italic and the "=" is a printed double-stroke equals with a wider space before it than after. There is a small stray horizontal ink dash in the right-hand margin level with the third line of the caption; it carries no text and is a mark in the copy, not printed matter. No printed square brackets occur on this page. The page ends mid-sentence after "which have produced".]

<<<PAGE pdf=85 file=page_085.txt>>>
[PAGE 80]
[RUNNING HEAD] 80	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

numerous secretion droplets. There are, scattered about, the darker sub-spherical cells already referred to. They are somewhat smaller in diameter than the large vacuoles, and their hemispherical surface, which projects into the lumen of the gastrozooid carries stiff cilia about 0·01 mm in length, which gives them the appearance of the back of a hedgehog (text-fig. 43). The whole cell may be likened to an ice-cream-cornet in shape. Rather similar absorptive cells were described by Willem (1894) in the palpons of Apolemia.

Tentilla of the tentacles. A single detached tentillum, mounted on a microscopical slide by Vanhoeffen, was figured by Moser (1925, Pl. 30, fig. 7), but the two shown in her figure 6 do not belong to this species. I have studied numerous tentilla still attached to tentacles. There may be fifty or more on one tentacle. The hypertrophy of the axial canal which develops thickened mesogloeal walls, and appears to form the extensile part of the cnidobattery has not been noted in any other species.

[FIGURE]
0·05mm

FIG. 43.   Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser
Transverse section of a mature gastrozooid to show a hedgehog cell of the endoderm. The ectoderm has been lost, leaving a narrow band of mesogloea on the outer side of the endoderm.
[/FIGURE]

In an early growth stage the axial canal of a tentillum runs uniformly from tentacle-axis to the tip of the straight and short terminal filament. But at a point which marks the subsequent proximal end of the terminal filament a diverticulum of the axial canal, to which I shall refer as the diverticular canal, runs back towards the pedicel alongside the proximal part of the axial canal just described (text-fig. 44). Its epidermis, on the side opposite to the axial canal, forms the cnidoband.

As growth proceeds, the lumen of the diverticular canal, lying under the cnidoband, comes to exceed in diameter that of the axial canal proper, and forms the cavity of the saccus.

In the final growth stages the part of the axial canal that lies proximally to the terminal filament appears as a fine tube lying on the surface at one side of and opening into the dilated, diverticular canal at the point where the diverticulum originates. This same proximal part of the axial canal

[NOTE: printed folio 80 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 85, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 43 occupies the middle of the page between two blocks of text and is transcribed in that position. The only text printed within the drawing is the label of a horizontal scale bar below the drawing, lettered "0·05mm" (bold sans-serif hand lettering, decimal a raised middot, "mm" set close up against the figures); the bar carries four intermediate tick marks. Nothing about what the drawing shows is recorded here. The caption proper follows on the next three lines in smaller type, set in a narrow centred measure; its wrapped lines have been joined into continuous prose and the hyphen in "hedge-hog" broken across a line has been silently removed, giving "hedgehog". Decimal point in 0·01 is a raised middot. "Tentilla" at the head of its paragraph is a side-heading set in italic but followed by "of the tentacles." in roman rather than by a colon, unlike the other side-headings in this section; transcribed as printed. The author's name for Vanhoeffen is again printed without a diaeresis, here broken across a line as "Van-|hoeffen" and joined to "Vanhoeffen". No printed square brackets occur on this page. The page ends mid-sentence after "of the axial canal".]

<<<PAGE pdf=86 file=page_086.txt>>>
[PAGE 81]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 5 PYROSTEPHIDAE	81

develops thick mesogloeal walls and becomes convoluted as it decreases in diameter towards the base of the terminal filament. It probably acts as an extensor on activation of the mechanism when the proximal end of the cnidoband breaks away from the pedicel and the whole cnidoband turns end for end and is flung on to the prey.

In most other siphonophores with the common type of tentillar cnidosac, the diverticular canal also becomes the cavity of the saccus, and the paired 'elastic bands' are probably formed from the lateral walls of the axial canal. These bands are, significantly, attached distally at the base of the terminal filament, at a point where the diverticulum just described originates. For this reason I believe the 'paired elastic bands' to be homologous with the lateral mesogloeal walls of the proximal part of the axial canal. Their proximal ends are known to originate from the lateral mesogloeal walls of the pedicel. The 'paired elastic bands' of the common type of cnidosac are probably more efficient and elaborate extensors than the axial canal of Pyrostephos.

[FIGURE]
t
c.p
s
f.t
c.d
cn.b
n.l

FIG. 44.   Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser
Schematic sketch of an early growth stage of a tentillum, × 50
c.d = diverticular canal; c.p = pedicular canal; cn.b = cnidoband; f.t = terminal filament; n.l = lateral nematocysts; t = tentacle; s = saccus.
[/FIGURE]

Thus Pyrostephos gives a clue as to the structure ontogeny and evolution of the hitherto puzzling and rather complicated tentillar knobs or cnidosacs that are found both in Physonectae and in Calycophorae. In this respect Pyrostephos seems to have retained a primitive feature. But in the still more primitive tentilla in species of Nanomia and Forskalia the axial canal never develops a diverticulum: there the axial canal remains simple, though it becomes spirally coiled throughout its length, and develops paired elastic bands. It seems that development of paired elastic bands in most siphonophores evolved prior to the development of the diverticulum.

At the base of the saccus there are from five to seven pairs of larger, lateral nematocysts. They do not enter the saccus-wall through the pedicel until the terminal filament, still in its straight uncoiled condition, is almost 0·5 mm in length. These large, ovoid, lateral nematocysts measure 0·04 mm × 0·28 mm. They contain a large central structure, probably the hampe with spines, so that they possibly are heterotrichous heteronemes, euryteles or even stenoteles.

Bracts:   The largest measure 23 mm × 14 mm according to Moser. She described them as very thick, flat underneath, convex above, and proximally coming to a long point much broadened distally and irregularly toothed: the bracteal canal is fine, drawn out and ends some distance from the distal end. The basic pattern of the distal end seems to be three pointed. In early growth stages there is a shallow horizontal pocket on the upper side between the lateral pair of points.

Palpons (Oleocysts) (Pl. XVI, fig. 10):   On a specimen taken on January 3, 1913, by 'Terra Nova' at Station 274 (71° 29'S, 166° 00'W) in 80 m, the oleocysts seem to be arranged at the dorsal edges of the ventral tract of appendages as if to buoy up the stem.

[NOTE: printed folio 81 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 86, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 44 sits between two blocks of text and is transcribed in that position. The items listed inside [FIGURE] are exactly the hand-lettered text printed within the drawing and nothing else, in reading order: "t" at the upper left, "c.p" and "s" on leaders above the drawing, "f.t" at the right-hand end, and "c.d", "cn.b", "n.l" on leaders below. The drawing has no panel letters and no scale bar (the magnification × 50 is given in the caption instead). The illustration is not described. Numerals verified digit by digit at 2·8–3·2× magnification: 0·5 mm, 0·04 mm × 0·28 mm, 23 mm × 14 mm, January 3, 1913, Station 274, 80 m, and the co-ordinates (71° 29'S, 166° 00'W) — the last with a leading zero, printed "00'". Decimal points are raised middots and "×" is a printed multiplication sign. The degree signs are printed with a thin space before them. The single quotation marks round 'elastic bands' and 'paired elastic bands' and 'Terra Nova' are the author's own. In the last paragraph the printed line "the ventral tract" has a raised point between "the" and "ventral" where the two words nearly touch; it is a spacing artefact, not punctuation, and is transcribed as a plain space. There are two small stray ink marks in the right-hand margin, one level with "0·04 mm ×" and one level with "pair of points", and one in the left margin level with "are heterotrichous"; none carries text. In the caption the abbreviations are italic and the "=" signs are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=87 file=page_087.txt>>>
[PAGE 82]
[RUNNING HEAD] 82	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
A
C
B
D
E
F

FIG. 45.   Bargmannia elongata Totton. Nectophores
A, B, upper and under views, 'Discovery' St. 681, × 3.2; C, D, lateral and upper views, 'Discovery' St. 699, × 6.3; E, F, lateral and under views, 'Discovery' St. 1769 (1,000–750 m), × 3.5. The muscular lamella is attached along the pecked lines in figs. E, F (from Totton, 1954), fig. 28).
[/FIGURE]

Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni is dioecious.

Gonophores:   The gonophores bud one from another to form small bunches. They were absent from the young specimens taken by 'Terra Nova' at St. 274 on January 3, 1913, but present in a smaller specimen taken on February 6, 1931, in 3–0 m at 'William Scoresby' Station 555. The males are sausage shaped, and when apparently mature measure 1·3 mm × 0·5 mm. The females are ovoid, 0·5 mm in diameter, with from three to five eggs arranged meridianally to give the external appearance of the seams of a football.

Genus: BARGMANNIA Totton, 1954
Monotypic genus for B. elongata Totton, 1954.
Imperfectly known, chiefly from nectophores in which the lateral radial canals do not form loops.

Bargmannia elongata Totton, 1954
Text-figure 45

Nothing more has been published about this easily recognized species since I described the nectophores. The only new material I have identified came from 'Discovery' Station 4246 taken in a closing

[NOTE: printed folio 82 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 87, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 45 occupies the whole upper two-thirds of the page as six drawings with its caption beneath. The only text printed within the drawings is the six panel letters, which are hand-lettered in a sloping capital face; they are listed above in reading order across the sheet: A at the upper left, C at the top centre, B at the upper right, then F, D and E on the lower row (F at the left, D at the centre, E at the right, its letter set above the drawing). The drawings carry no leader labels, no scale bars and no other lettering, and the illustrations are not described here. In the caption the parentheses are unbalanced as printed: "(from Totton, 1954), fig. 28)" has a closing bracket with no opening mate before "fig. 28"; transcribed exactly as set, not emended. The three magnifications are printed "× 3.2", "× 6.3" and "× 3.5" with ordinary baseline full stops, whereas the measurements in the body text below use raised middots (1·3 mm × 0·5 mm, 0·5 mm); both usages are transcribed as printed. In the Gonophores paragraph the depth is printed "in 3–0 m", with an en rule between the 3 and the 0 — verified at 16× magnification; it is transcribed as printed and not emended to "30 m" or "3 m". Numerals verified digit by digit: St. 681, St. 699, St. 1769, 1,000–750 m, St. 274, January 3, 1913, February 6, 1931, Station 555, Station 4246, and the dates 1954. In the genus block "Monotypic" is printed in italic and the rest of the line in roman — unlike the corresponding lines for other genera in this book, where the whole line is roman; transcribed as printed. "BARGMANNIA" in the genus heading and "Bargmannia elongata" in the species heading are bold italic. There is a small stray ink mark in the left margin level with the end of the Gonophores paragraph and another in the right margin on the same line; neither carries text. No printed square brackets occur on this page. The page ends mid-sentence after "taken in a closing".]

<<<PAGE pdf=88 file=page_088.txt>>>
[PAGE 83]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 6 PHYSOPHORIDAE	83

net haul at 1,600 m on September 10, 1959. Unfortunately, there was on board no one interested in specially preserving siphonophores. There were many nectophores associated in the catch with fragments of an orange coloured stem and some large detached gastrozooids measuring up to 3 cm length × 0·7 cm but no bracts were found, though the muscular siphosome, which is some 3 mm in diameter, carries a continuous series of the muscular bases of their lamellar attachments. A small two-chambered pneumatophore measures 6 mm × 1 mm. The state of preservation is very bad and the ectoderm of the gastrozooids is wanting. Projecting into the lumen is a series of large irregular ridges and villi of mesogloea.

Well preserved nectophores in good shape are not generally found in plankton hauls. For the purposes of this synopsis I will not attempt a description but refer to my drawings which are reproduced here (text-fig. 45). Paradoxically, this is one of the least known but most easily recognized physonects.

Family 6: PHYSOPHORIDAE Eschscholtz, 1829 (pro parte)

PHYSOPHORIADAE Huxley, 1859

DISCOLABIDAE Haeckel, 1888

Genus: PHYSOPHORA Forskål, 1775
Monotypic genus for P. hydrostatica Forskål, 1775.

Physophora Forskål, 1775
Physsophora Forskål, 1775
Discolabe Eschscholtz, 1829

I recognize only one species of the only genus, Physophora, of this family of physonects. Characteristic of the family and genus is the fact that the spiral budding zone of the siphosome, instead of elongating, expands laterally into a spiral sac, on the outer rim of the under side of which are found the cormidial groups. The single palpons of each group are proportionately very large and form a ring of active 'feelers', capable of co-ordinated action, and stinging badly.

Physophora hydrostatica Forskål, 1775
Plate XV, figures 1–10

Physophora myzonema Péron & Lesueur, 1807
Physophora philippi Kölliker, 1853
Physophora borealis Sars, 1877
Discolabe quadrigata Haeckel, 1888b
Physophora hydrostatica Kawamura, 1911; Bigelow & Sears, 1937; Garstang, 1946; Totton, 1954

A distinctive short stemmed, almost cosmopolitan physonect that can be immediately identified from separated nectophores, palpons and tentacles, as well as from the denuded stem and pneumatophore. Its known temperature range extends from 3 °C to 21·1 °C. It was well figured – but the colours are incorrect – by Péron & Lesueur.

I am in no way satisfied by the evidence published by Haeckel (1888b) for the existence of a rather different species Discolabe quadrigata, alleged to have a quadriserial nectosome.

At first sight Physophora appears to be organized rather differently from long-stemmed physonects, but if the proximal end of the siphosome of one of the latter be examined, it will be seen that the budding zone either makes, by overgrowth, a similar sort of spiral, or makes several sinuous bends on the surface of the stem. In Physophora the proximal part of the protosiphon never elongates to form a stem, but instead becomes hypertrophied in the horizontal plane – to form a sac-like siphosome.

[NOTE: printed folio 83 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 88, offset −5 holds. No figures on this page. Two printed oddities are transcribed exactly and not corrected. (i) The second family-synonym heading is printed "PHYSOPHORIADAE Huxley, 1859" — PHYSOPHORI-A-DAE, with an extra A, where the family heading two lines above is "PHYSOPHORIDAE" and the running head likewise "PHYSOPHORIDAE"; verified at 4× magnification. (ii) In the genus synonymy the second line is "Physsophora Forskål, 1775" with a double s, against "Physophora Forskål, 1775" on the line above; both spellings are as printed. The family and family-synonym names are set in bold roman capitals; "PHYSOPHORA" in the genus heading and "Physophora hydrostatica" in the species heading are bold italic; "(pro parte)" is italic inside roman parentheses. Diacritics are printed and kept: the ring in "Forskål" (four occurrences), the umlaut in "Kölliker", the acute in "Péron". Numerals verified digit by digit: 1,600 m, September 10, 1959, 3 cm, 0·7 cm, 3 mm, 6 mm × 1 mm, and the dates 1829, 1859, 1888, 1775, 1807, 1853, 1877, 1888b, 1911, 1937, 1946, 1954. The temperature range is printed "from 3 °C to 21·1 °C" with a space before each degree sign and a raised middot as the decimal point. The dashes round "but the colours are incorrect" and before "to form a sac-like siphosome" are printed as spaced en rules. There are two small stray ink marks in the margins, one at the right level with "length × 0·7 cm" and one at the left level with "from separated nectophores"; neither carries text. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=89 file=page_089.txt>>>
[PAGE 84]
[RUNNING HEAD] 84	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

I would refer systematists to my earlier remarks (1954) on the species. There is a long description of the species by Vogt (1854), who gave an excellent figure of the larva (Tab. 6, fig. 24).

Pneumatophore:   With plum coloured pigment at its apex, on a narrow mobile stalk (see Chun, 1898, p. 324, figs. 1–2 for details of the muscular lamellae). There is a basal pore.

Nectophores:   Two rows of half-a-dozen or so, beautifully figured by Bigelow and Sears (1937, fig. 49) from the underside of a specimen 14·5 mm wide. Bigelow (1911b) had previously published photographs of young specimens and a good side-view of a nectophore (Pl. 16, fig. 8). Sars (1877) figured (Tab. VI, figs. 3, 4) the course of the radial canals as seen from both above and below. I show the upper side in text-figure 46B. The nectosac has sub-angular expansions at the ostial end of the

[FIGURE]
B
C
A

FIG. 46.   Physophora hydrostatica Forskål
A, whole animal (after Gegenbaur, 1859), × 0.6; B, nectophore from upper (outer) side, × 2; C, palpon nat. size (from Totton & Fraser, 1955, figs. 1, 6a, 6b).
[/FIGURE]

lateral sacs, and is embayed on the upper and adaxial side. The course taken by each lateral radial canal is as follows: From its common origin with the other three radial canals in the pedicel it runs a short distance outwards on the underside of the nectosac. It then turns 45° towards the ab-ostial end, though sometimes this change of course is not angular but gradual. It then forms an irregular loop round the ab-ostial half of the angle of the nectosac that separates the under and ad-axial sides of the 'lateral' wing of the nectosac, though not approaching the tip of the lateral sac. Having made this loop, it runs inwards and downwards parallel to the first two parts. So far my description can be followed in text-figure 46B. I have now described the course of the lateral radial canal to a point midway between the median longitudinal axial plane of the nectophore and the lateral face. Here it forms an acute bend outwards and runs irregularly round the lateral wall of the nectosac, and we can no longer follow its course in Bigelow's figure. It then runs an obliquely and slightly sinuous course upwards and inwards to form a loop at the same level, and on the opposite (outer) wall to that on which lies the first loop described, before it runs downwards and inwards to a level just above the junction of pedicular and radial canals, when the nectophore is viewed from the outer (or upper) surface. Here it makes a gradual right-angle bend outwards, then downwards, and again downwards and outwards to a point just inside the sub-angular ostial end of the lateral sac of the nectosac. Here it turns upwards along the ostial wall of the lateral sac, then down the lateral wall of the cylindrical section of the nectosac to terminate in the circular canal.

[NOTE: printed folio 84 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 89, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 46 sits in the middle of the page between two blocks of text and is transcribed in that position. The three drawings are arranged A at the left (a tall figure whose panel letter is set below it), B in the centre and C at the right (their panel letters set below them). The only text printed within the drawings is those three panel letters, in bold sans-serif hand lettering; they are listed above in reading order, B and C first because their letters stand higher on the sheet than A's. There are no leader labels and no scale bars, and the illustrations are not described. In the caption the two magnifications are printed "× 0.6" and "× 2" with an ordinary baseline full stop in the first, whereas the body text uses a raised middot (14·5 mm); both are transcribed as printed. "see" is italic inside "(see Chun, 1898, p. 324, figs. 1–2 ...)". Numerals verified digit by digit: 1954, 1854, Tab. 6, fig. 24, 1898, p. 324, figs. 1–2, 1937, fig. 49, 14·5 mm, 1911b, Pl. 16, fig. 8, 1877, Tab. VI, figs. 3, 4, 46B, 1859, 1955, figs. 1, 6a, 6b, and the angle 45°. The degree sign in "45°" is printed with a thin space before it. Note the author's name for the German zoologist is printed "Gegenbaur". There is a small stray ink mark in the left margin level with "way between the median"; it carries no text. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=90 file=page_090.txt>>>
[PAGE 85]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 6 PHYSOPHORIDAE	85

The dorsal radial canal makes three loops to each side on its course to the ring canal. The ventral radial canal makes two small loops to each side on its proximal half, and then runs direct to the ring canal.

The ad-axial side of the nectophore is hollowed out rather as in Apolemia. The hollow is limited on the ad-axial and under sides by rather fine edges, and also on the upper side by one running along the ad-axial end of the lateral sac of the nectosac to the median axis. Elsewhere the nectophore is more rounded than usual, and ridges are not apparent, except a basal one running from the divided mouth-plate to the ostial ends of the lateral sacs of the nectosac.

A median groove runs on the upper side of the nectosac between the lateral sacs, and curves round on the ad-axial side to the upper end of the muscular lamella of attachment. On the lower side is a great rounded mass of mesogloea, lying between the origin of the pedicular canal and the mouth-plate. The lower wall figures prominently in views from the ad-axial side. The ostial wall of this mass meets the lower outer wall of the cylindrical part of the nectophore at an angle of about 60°.

Tentacles:   The cnido-batteries are of an unique kind. One side of the terminal part of the peduncle is hypertrophied to grow down alongside the coiled-up cnidoband. As a result the original distal end of the cnidoband is found near the upper part of the mature battery, and its original proximal end lies near the distal end of the battery. Growth stages of this complex apparatus have been figured several times (see Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861, Taf. IV).

Palpons:   Very characteristic are the large palpons, greenish-pink in colour and heavily armed at the tips with nematocysts that can inflict a very painful sting on the fingers. They are often called, mistakenly, 'tentacles'. Each bears a long, fine palpacle (Pl. XV, fig. 1, text-fig. 46C). When detached, the end of the palpon and the site of detachment are contracted, the latter showing a central papilla. The palpons show a characteristic concerted reaction to stimulation of the nectosome (Pl. XV, fig. 10), the tips being thrown up actively as far as the pneumatophore. In the swimming posture the tips are

[FIGURE]
c.br
t
p1
p2
pn
br.l
gz

FIG. 47.   Physophora hydrostatica Forskål
Larva, from life at Villefranche, March 3, 1954, × 20.
br.l = larval bract; c.br = bracteal canal; gz = gastrozooid; p1, p2 = first and second palpons; pn = pneumatophore; t = tentillum.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 85 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 90, offset −5 holds. Text-fig. 47 occupies the lower half of the page below the Palpons paragraph, with its caption beneath in a narrow centred measure; the page ends with the caption, so the body text of p. 85 breaks off mid-sentence at "the tips are" before the figure. The items listed inside [FIGURE] are exactly the hand-lettered leader labels printed within the drawing and nothing else, in reading order: "c.br" at the upper right, "t" at the upper left, "p1" and "p2" down the left side, "pn" at the right, "br.l" at the lower left and "gz" at the foot. The drawing has no panel letter and no scale bar (the magnification × 20 is given in the caption instead), and the illustration is not described. The palpon labels are lettered "p¹" and "p²" with raised numerals both in the drawing and in the caption; superscripts cannot be represented in plain text and the figures are written on the line here. Printed name to note: "Kefferstein" with a double-f ligature — verified at 12× magnification — where the zoologist's name is normally spelt Keferstein; transcribed as printed and not corrected. In the caption the abbreviations are set in bold italic ("br.l", "c.br", "gz", "pn") or italic ("t"), the "=" signs are printed as a double-stroke equals glyph, and the italic "gz" has a swash-tailed z that could be mistaken for a different letter; it is "gz". "see" is italic inside "(see Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861, Taf. IV)". Numerals verified digit by digit: 60°, 1861, Pl. XV, fig. 1, text-fig. 46C, Pl. XV, fig. 10, March 3, 1954, × 20. The degree sign in "60°" is printed with a thin space before it. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=91 file=page_091.txt>>>
[PAGE 86]
[RUNNING HEAD] 86	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

approximated and trailed aft. At all times when quiescent, the palpons obscure the gastrozooids and gonodendra.

Gonodendra (see Vogt (1854), Tab. 4, fig. 8; Garstang (1946), text-fig. 41):   A male and a female gonodendron bud alongside each other in a whorl between the palpons and the gastrozooids.   The male gonophores (see Vogt (1854), Tab. 6, fig.19) are very much elongated. The tiny, ovoid, monovon, adult female differs in an interesting way from all other anthomedusae known to me as follows. The four radial canals do not join a ring-canal, but instead link up two and two distally to form two long lateral loops. The surface of the single egg is marked by meridional grooves corresponding with and probably impressed by the canals, making it appear at first sight as if there were four eggs. The medusoid – to adopt the terminology of Kühn (1913) – measures in formalin 0·4 mm × 0·32 mm. In this condition the egg does not completely fill the subumbrella, but appears to have shrunk a little. In the dozens of specimens stained with borax-carmine and examined under the binocular the nucleus measured 0·1 mm in diameter, and always lay close to one side of the umbrella between the two loops. At the end opposite the peduncle was a patch of tissue that stained well and contained nematocysts.

Ontogeny:   Figures given by Haeckel (1869) suggest that the pneumatophore of the larva (text-fig. 47) lies inside the mesogloea of the great larval bract. In reality the float lies freely outside the bract. Vogt (1854, Pl. 6, fig. 24) gave a beautiful coloured sketch of the very active larva after the loss of its great larval bract.

Kawamura (1954) introduced, in my opinion unreasonably, two sub-species major and minor, depending chiefly upon the length of the peduncle of the tentillum. But observations of living Mediterranean specimens show that this varies enormously in one and the same animal.

Family 7: ATHORYBIIDAE Huxley, 1859

Anthophysidae Brandt, 1835
Pleophysidae Fewkes, 1888b

Two genera only are recognized – Athorybia and Melophysa. It appears that the main part of an athorybiid consists of an hypertrophied nectostyle carrying the larval-type bracts on groups of elongated muscular lamellae (pedicels), and groups of gonodendra with palpons and gonophores, as well as gastrozooids and their tentacles. The pedicel of the protosiphon never elongates downwards, as in long-stemmed forms, where successive cormidia are carried down with it, and no nectosome grows upwards in the opposite direction, except a very much reduced one in Melophysa. Athorybia never develops nectophores. Both types of organization may be compared with that of an 'Athorybia larva' of Agalma elegans (text-fig. 19). These neotenous athorybiid animals finally take up a horizontal posture, lying on the nectostylar or ventral side from which the cormidial groups are budded.

In 'Discovery' Reports, Volume XXVII, 1954, I discussed the history of the family name and the significance of the morphology of the two species of physonects to which it applies. In systematic accounts there has been some confusion between the two. Neither is often found. I was lucky enough to have a living specimen of Athorybia to examine at Villefranche in 1950, on which I reported in 1954.

ATHORYBIA Eschscholtz, 1829

Monotypic genus for A. rosacea Forskål, 1775.
For synonymy see Totton (1954).

[NOTE: printed folio 86 at the outer (left) edge of the running head — this is a verso, so the folio precedes the centred small-caps title, the reverse of the recto pages; PDF index 91, offset −5 holds. No figures, tables or footnotes on this page; the lower quarter is blank below "For synonymy see Totton (1954)." No printed square brackets occur on this page. Typographic details: the italic side-headings "Gonodendra" and "Ontogeny:" open their paragraphs and are followed by a wide (two-space) gap before the text, as is the colon after "text-fig. 41):"; "see" is italic in every "(see …)" and in "For synonymy see Totton (1954)." In "(see Vogt (1854), Tab. 6, fig.19)" the space between "fig." and "19" is set noticeably tighter than elsewhere on the page, verified at 6× magnification, and is transcribed closed up as printed; every other instance on the page is "fig. n" with a normal space. Decimal points in the measurements are printed as raised middle dots ("0·4", "0·32", "0·1") and the multiplication sign in "0·4 mm × 0·32 mm" is a saltire-shaped multiplication cross, not the letter x. Dashes around "– to adopt the terminology of Kühn (1913) –" are en-rules. Numerals verified digit by digit: 1854, Tab. 4, fig. 8, 1946, text-fig. 41, Tab. 6, fig.19, 1913, 0·4, 0·32, 0·1, 1869, text-fig. 47, 1854, Pl. 6, fig. 24, 1954, 1859, 1835, 1888b, text-fig. 19, XXVII, 1954, 1950, 1954, 1829, 1775, 1954. The family name in the heading is bold "ATHORYBIIDAE" with two consecutive I's (ATHORYB-II-DAE), verified at 4×; the genus heading is bold "ATHORYBIA" with one. Author names are set in ordinary upper- and lower-case roman here (Huxley, Brandt, Fewkes, Eschscholtz, Forskål, Vogt, Garstang, Haeckel, Kühn, Kawamura), not small capitals. "Forskål" carries the ring over the a. Two stray ink marks, both scanning blemishes rather than printed matter: a short comma-like tick in the right margin level with the line "Anthophysidae Brandt, 1835", and a thin horizontal hair-line lying over the letters "at" of "systematic" in the penultimate paragraph, which at 5× is clearly a hair or fibre on the platen and not a printed macron — the word is plain "systematic". A faint tick also sits in the left margin level with "significance of the morphology"; likewise a blemish.]

<<<PAGE pdf=92 file=page_092.txt>>>
[PAGE 87]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 7 ATHORYBIIDAE	87

Athorybia rosacea (Forskål, 1775)
Plate XVII, figures 1–16, text-figure 48

Physsophora rosacea Forskål, 1775
Rhizophysa rosacea Lamarck, 1816
Rhizophysa heliantha Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
Rhodophysa helianthus Blainville, 1830
Rhodophysa rosacea Blainville, 1830
Athophysa rosea Brandt, 1835; Bigelow, 1911b, 1931; Leloup, 1941
Angela cytherea Lesson, 1843; (Anga nom. nov. Stechow, 1921, Angela preocc. Orthoptera)
Athorybia rosacea Kölliker, 1853; Huxley, 1859; Totton, 1954
Athorybia heliantha Gegenbaur, 1859
Athorybia formosa Fewkes, 1882; Schneider, 1898
Pleophysa agassizii Fewkes, 1888b
Diplorybia formosa Fewkes, 1888b
Athorybia californica Fewkes, 1888c
Anthophysa darwinii Haeckel, 1888b
Anthophysa formosa Chun, 1897b; Bedot, 1904; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Athorybia longifolia Kawamura, 1954
non Rhizophysa melo Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
non Rhodophysa melo Blainville, 1830
non Melophysa melo Haeckel, 1888b
non Athorybia melo Chun, 1897b
non Athorybia rosacea Bigelow, 1931 (= Melophysa melo)

Figured in colour by Quoy & Gaimard as Rhizophysa heliantha, by Kölliker as Athorybia rosacea, and as Anthophysa darwinii by Haeckel who gave three figures in monochrome on his plate XII. Bigelow (1911b) gave a beautiful detailed figure in monochrome and a description under the name Anthophysa rosea. Further notes on anatomy were given by Bedot (1904), Leloup (1941) and Totton (1954).

The organization of the animal is comparable with that of a young Nanomia or Agalma that has come to rest on its side. No nectophores are budded.

It is no easy matter to analyse the organization of the few available specimens of this species. My interpretation of the general organization differs from that of Leloup (1941 as Anthophysa rosea) in that Leloup describes two budding zones, the anterior (supérieure) of which 'en forme de mammelon' he homologizes with the nectosome of other physonects; I regard it as the nectostyle or budding zone of the siphosome. In Agalmidae it first appears on the opposite side to that on which the nectophores are budded (see Totton, 1956, fig. 1b). I maintain that there is only one budding zone in Athorybia, namely the nectostyle, from which the bracts (homologous with the larval bracts of the larvae of agalmids) and the cormidia are budded (as in agalmids).

It must be remembered that the name Athorybia rosacea has been applied to some descriptions and figures of specimens which are really Melophysa melo. If bracts are present it is very easy to distinguish between the two. Those of Athorybia are comparatively thin and smooth, those of Melophysa melo very thick with tuberculate ridges. Melophysa alone has nectophores and a shortly stalked pneumatophore.

The clue to the correct orientation and interpretation of the organization of both forms has been provided in a beautiful figure of Melophysa melo (as Athorybia rosacea) by Bigelow (1931, fig. 218). The morphological upper and lower poles of the long axis are marked in this figure, as in all physonects, by the pneumatophore and the protozooid (probably the smaller of the two gastrozooids shown).

The protozooid has always been found to be smaller and simpler than the secondary gastrozooids in all physonects so far examined on this point. I have discussed the basic organization further in notes on the family Athorybiidae on the opposite page.

Pneumatophore: Large, forming the bulk of the specimen. The thick secondary ectoderm was

[NOTE: printed folio 87 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 92, offset −5 holds. This is a recto, so the running head reads title-then-folio, the reverse of p. 86 opposite. No figures, tables or footnotes; the page ends mid-sentence at "The thick secondary ectoderm was" with about a fifth of the page left blank below. No printed square brackets occur on this page — every parenthesis here is a round bracket.

Two printed inconsistencies preserved as printed, not corrected. (1) The synonymy line dated 1835 reads "Athophysa rosea" — A-t-h-o-p-h-y-s-a, with no "n" — verified at 6× magnification, whereas the body text three paragraphs later reads "Anthophysa rosea" with the "n", verified at 7×, and the family-synonym on p. 86 opposite reads "Anthophysidae". (2) "Diplorybia formosa Fewkes, 1888b" is printed with an "r" (D-i-p-l-o-r-y-b-i-a), verified at 7×, in a list where the neighbouring names are "-physa" and "Athorybia".

Layout and type: the species heading is bold italic for the binomen with the authority in roman parentheses; the second heading line "Plate XVII, figures 1–16, text-figure 48" is roman, and the rule between 1 and 16 is an en-dash. The 22-line synonymy list is set in small type with the taxon names in italic and the authorities in roman; each entry begins flush left with no indent, and the five "non" entries have "non" itself in italic. In the last of them the "=" is printed as a double-stroke equals glyph, matching the practice in the figure captions elsewhere in the volume. Italic within body text: Rhizophysa heliantha, Athorybia rosacea, Anthophysa darwinii, Anthophysa rosea, Nanomia, Agalma, Athorybia, Melophysa melo, Melophysa, Athorybiidae, the side-heading "Pneumatophore:", and "see" inside "(see Totton, 1956, fig. 1b)". "Anga" and "Angela" are italic inside the parenthesis on the Lesson line. Quotation marks are single and curly around 'en forme de mammelon'. "supérieure" carries an acute accent; "Forskål" the ring over the a; "Kölliker" a diaeresis.

Numerals verified digit by digit against 3×-7× crops: 1775 (heading), XVII, 1–16, 48; then the synonymy — 1775, 1816, 1827, 1830, 1830, 1835, 1911b, 1931, 1941, 1843, 1921, 1853, 1859, 1954, 1859, 1882, 1898, 1888b, 1888b, 1888c, 1888b, 1897b, 1904, 1908, 1954, 1827, 1830, 1888b, 1897b, 1931; and in the body — 1911b, 1904, 1941, 1954, 1941, 1956, fig. 1b, 1931, fig. 218. Note the letter suffixes: Bigelow 1911b, Fewkes 1888b twice then 1888c, Haeckel 1888b, Chun 1897b twice.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes and not printed matter: a small speck between "Melophysa" and "melo" in "a beautiful figure of Melophysa melo (as Athorybia rosacea)" which at 7× is a dust speck sitting above the baseline and not an accent or apostrophe; a faint tick in the left margin level with "very thick with tuberculate ridges"; single specks in the right margin level with "Rhizophysa rosacea Lamarck, 1816", with "are budded (see Totton, 1956", and near the foot of the page. The paragraph beginning "The clue to the correct orientation" is set with visibly tighter word-spacing than its neighbours, a compositor's tightening of a three-line paragraph, not a change of type size.]

<<<PAGE pdf=93 file=page_093.txt>>>
[PAGE 88]
[RUNNING HEAD] 88	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

figured by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 21, as Anthophysa rosea) and by Leloup (1941, Pl. 11). Bigelow shows the giant cells in the septa connecting the saccus to the pneumatocodon. The long morphologically longitudinal axis is tilted over to the ventral side. I suspect that there is a basal porus as in Physophora, because I saw a living specimen emitting bubbles amongst the bracts and palpons. Its presence has not been noted in spite of the fact that Chun, Bedot, Bigelow and Leloup have all cut sections of specimens. Gas production must be rapid because I saw the same living specimen sink and rise again to the surface half a dozen times. Ten minutes or so elapsed between sinking and rising again. The apical end is half covered on one side by the enlarged nectostyle.

Bracts (text-fig. 48):   These arise from the excentric nectostyle by pedicels, on the two sides of which broad based muscular lamellae arise. In maturity the bases of these lamellae form eight or nine groups of six or seven each, the newly budded one being more apical than the older ones.

The bracts themselves are capable of beating rhythmically in unison. I have seen them doing this when ascending to the surface, but particularly whilst being narcotized in magnesium chloride. They are three times as long as broad with a keel for attachment that is flattened laterally in the proximal part. The rest of the bract is flattened dorso-ventrally and convex on the upper side which bears seven inconspicuous longitudinal rows of nematocysts. The bracts form a complete corona and lie in several layers.

Gastrozooids:   A protozooid marks the oral, anterior end. A young specimen may show only three or four gastrozooids, but in a specimen measuring 13 mm in length I counted eighteen. Their bases formed a line descending in a curve from the budding zone high up on the nectostyle towards and round the left and part of the broad underside. The curvature of this line in the growing zone is probably due to rapid, early hypertrophy. This occurs in most physonects, generally at the bases of all tentacles, especially in Physalia. The gastrozooids with their basigasters are of the usual Agalmid type. The tentacles have been described in great detail by Bedot (1904) and Bigelow (1911b). Bigelow decided that the trifid tentilla were of two main types, which he figured in his plate 20, figure 10 and plate 23, figure 4, an involucrate and a dendritic type, as described by Fewkes (1882) and by Haeckel (1888b). Bigelow said that some of Bedot's eight types were referable to stages of development of one type, and some to those of the other. My Villefranche specimen which measured about 1 cm in diameter, had seven tentacles and was carefully extended in magnesium chloride before fixation in formalin, bore five of the larger dendritic type of tentillum.

The preserved expanded tentacles, now measure about 3 cm in length. In life they were perhaps twice as long. There are from twenty-five to thirty tentilla on each, at distances apart of from 1–1·5 mm each pedicel measuring from 2 to 3 mm in length. There is a long thickened terminal part of each tentacle which is free from tentilla (see Leloup, 1941, Pl. 1, fig. 3).

The tentilla are of two kinds on this specimen. Each tentacle may bear one or two or none of the larger dendritic type (Pl. XVII, fig. 2; and see Bedot, 1904, Pl. 1, fig. 8δ). Those of the other involucrate type (Pl. XVII, fig. 3) are like those figured by Bedot on the same plate in figure 6β. Both are tricornuate.

The 'pendant' (Bedot) or 'dorsal spur' (Haeckel) of the dendritic type was long (1·25 mm). I saw no intermediates between this delta type and the alpha type of Bedot's figure 4. But I agree with Bigelow in thinking that there are two main types of tentilla and not eight as suggested by Bedot. My view is that the form of the 'spur' is probably very variable, rather than that one form grows into another.

[FIGURE]
a
b
c

FIG. 48.   Athorybia rosacea (Forskål)
Bracts a, oblique view; b, inner side; c, side view (from Totton & Fraser, 1955, fig. 9 a-c), × 7.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 88 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 93, offset −5 holds. No printed square brackets occur on this page.

Layout: the page is set full measure down to "...bore five of the larger dendritic type of tentillum." From there the lower half becomes two unequal columns — a narrow left column of text about two-thirds the full measure, and a narrow right column occupied entirely by text-fig. 48 and its caption. Following the protocol, the left column is transcribed complete (the four paragraphs from "The preserved expanded tentacles" to "into another.") and the right column, i.e. the figure and caption, follows after it; on the page they stand side by side, the figure beginning level with the paragraph "The preserved expanded tentacles" and the caption level with "not eight as suggested by Bedot".

The three items inside [FIGURE] are exactly the three hand-lettered labels printed within the drawing and nothing else, in reading order: a bold lower-case "a" beside the left-hand object, "b" below the right-hand object, and "c" beside the lower object. There is no other lettering in the drawing, no panel number and no scale bar (the magnification × 7 is given in the caption). The illustration itself is deliberately not described. In the caption "FIG." is small capitals, "Athorybia rosacea" is italic, "(Forskål)" roman, and the multiplication sign in "× 7" is a saltire cross; the range in "fig. 9 a-c" is set with a short hyphen, not the en-dash used for numeric ranges elsewhere on the page.

Greek letters are printed in the tentillum references and are transcribed as Greek: "fig. 8δ" (delta, verified at 2.8×) and "figure 6β" (beta, likewise verified). Where Totton names the same types in words two sentences later, "delta" and "alpha" are spelt out in italic Latin letters — "this delta type and the alpha type of Bedot's figure 4" — and are transcribed as spelt.

Italic in the body: the side-headings "Bracts" and "Gastrozooids:", "porus", "Physophora", "Anthophysa rosea", "Physalia", "delta", "alpha", and "see" / "and see" inside the two parenthetic references. Single curly quotes enclose 'pendant' and 'dorsal spur' and the later 'spur'.

Numerals verified digit by digit against 2.8×–3× crops: 1911b, Pl. 21, 1941, Pl. 11, text-fig. 48, 13 mm, 1904, 1911b, plate 20, figure 10, plate 23, figure 4, 1882, 1888b, 1 cm, 3 cm, 1–1·5 mm, 2 to 3 mm, 1941, Pl. 1, fig. 3, Pl. XVII, fig. 2, 1904, Pl. 1, fig. 8δ, Pl. XVII, fig. 3, figure 6β, 1·25 mm, figure 4, FIG. 48, 1955, fig. 9 a-c, × 7. Decimal points in "1·5" and "1·25" are raised middle dots and the rule in "1–1·5" is an en-dash. Note that "Pl. 11" (Leloup) is two ones and not "Pl. II"; it is set in arabic figures like "Pl. 21" and "Pl. 1" elsewhere, whereas Totton's own plate is cited in roman as "Pl. XVII".

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: faint specks in the left margin level with "XVII, fig. 2" and near the foot of the page, a speck in the right margin level with "longitudinal axis is tilted", a short dash-like fleck in the white space to the right of label "b" inside the figure area which is not printed lettering, and a small tick low in the left margin below the text.]

<<<PAGE pdf=94 file=page_094.txt>>>
[PAGE 89]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 7 ATHORYBIIDAE	89

[TABLE]
Measurement of δ form of tentillum (in mm)
	length	diameter
Pedicel	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	6	0·03
Whole saccus	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	1·5	0·25
Lateral horns	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	0·5
'pendant'	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	1·25
[/TABLE]

Gonodendra:   They originate as single gonopalpons from the pedicels of which secondary palpons up to nine or more in number are budded, together with a pair of gonostyles, ♂ and ♀, side by side. These gonostyles bear numerous gonophores (Pl. XVII, fig. 9), the actual 'adults' of this type of animal, the male ones with long pedicels. There is a pair of gonodendra to each gastrozooid, one on each flank of the animal. It is difficult to delimit the boundaries of the individual cormidia, and the exact relationships are not as yet understood. Each palpon bears, as usual, a palpacle or simple, reduced tentacle. The palpons themselves are long, vermiform, very active and heavily armed at their pink tips with nematocysts. I dealt with the Haeckelian myth of an ocellus in 1954.

Kawamura (1954) described and figured a single preserved specimen of A. longifolia from Sagami Bay. The possession of soft flexible bracts is due I suspect to the state of preservation and not to a specific difference. I have listed longifolia as a synonym.

Genus: MELOPHYSA Haeckel, 1888
Monotypic genus for Rhizophysa melo Quoy & Gaimard, 1827.
For the history of the name of this genus, see Totton, 1954 (p. 40).

Melophysa melo (Quoy & Gaimard, 1827)
Text-figures 49, 50

Rhizophysa melo Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
Rhodophysa melo Blainville, 1830
Stephanomia melo Quoy & Gaimard (1833), 1834
Athorybia melo Chun, 1897b
Athorybia rosacea Bigelow, 1931
Melophysa melo Totton, 1954

Bigelow (1931) confused Athorybia rosacea with Melophysa melo, but the only good account is his, though under the wrong name. He gave two beautiful text-figures of the whole animal as well as others of the tentilla. Detailed figures of nectophores are given in text-figure 50.

Specimens of this species can be distinguished quite easily from those of Athorybia rosacea by the presence of nectophores and bulky bracts which bear tuberculate ridges.

Pneumatophore:   When mature, ovoid or pear-shaped, with septa containing giant cells, which are a part of the secondary ectoderm (see Chun, 1897b, Pl. IV, figs. 1, 7, 9); borne on a short nectosome which bears only a few (up to five) nectophores of a primitive kind. Bigelow suggested that only one at a time was functional (see Chun, 1897b, Pl. IV, fig. 3; and text-fig. 50). The post-larva has a more elongated, pear-shaped pneumatophore (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 8).

Bracts (text-fig. 49):   Thick and gelatinous borne in a corona on strong, contractile muscular lamellae. The nectostyle on which the larval bracts are borne cannot be distinguished in maturity, but is homologous with the whole of the bract-bearing side of the animal. The larval bracts are smooth surfaced, but like the later developed ones have a proximal keel of attachment. The mature bracts bear from eight to nine strong tuberculate radial ridges. In parts of the ridges, which may bear from six to twenty-seven tubercles, these have the form of conical papillae. In other parts they form more continuous crests. The bracteal lamellae are arranged in nine or more groups of three or four lamellae.

7

[NOTE: printed folio 89 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 94, offset −5 holds. No printed square brackets occur on this page.

The bare "7" on the last line, set flush left in small type below the final text line and separated from it by about a line's space, is a printer's signature mark, not a folio and not a footnote; the folio for this page is 89 in the head. Verified at 8× magnification: a single arabic 7 with no accompanying letter or asterisk.

The table at the head of the page is transcribed inside [TABLE] with single tabs between columns. Its heading line "Measurement of δ form of tentillum (in mm)" is bold, and the delta is a Greek letter printed in the ordinary (non-bold) roman δ within the bold line — this is the same δ used in "fig. 8δ" on p. 88 opposite. The two column heads "length" and "diameter" are bold and are set over the two right-hand columns, with no head over the stub column. Each stub entry is followed by a row of widely spaced leader dots — nine dots on the "Pedicel" row and eight on each of the other three, counted individually; they are reproduced here as tab-separated periods to keep the column structure, and their exact count is the only thing they carry. "saccus" in "Whole saccus" is italic; the other stub entries are roman, and 'pendant' is in single curly quotes. The "Lateral horns" and "'pendant'" rows have a length value but no diameter value — the diameter column is simply empty there, not a dash or a zero. Values verified digit by digit: 6 and 0·03; 1·5 and 0·25; 0·5; 1·25. All decimal points are raised middle dots.

The male and female signs in "a pair of gonostyles, ♂ and ♀, side by side" are printed as the standard Mars and Venus symbols, verified at 5×; they are transcribed as the corresponding Unicode characters.

Type: the genus heading reads "Genus:" in roman with a thin space before the colon, then bold italic "MELOPHYSA" in capitals, then roman "Haeckel, 1888". The species heading is bold italic "Melophysa melo" with roman "(Quoy & Gaimard, 1827)", over a roman second line "Text-figures 49, 50". The six-line synonymy is set in small type, taxon names italic and authorities roman, flush left. Italic side-headings in the body: "Gonodendra:", "Pneumatophore:", "Bracts"; italic also "A. longifolia", "longifolia", "Athorybia rosacea", "Melophysa melo", "Rhizophysa melo", and "see" in each parenthetic reference.

Numerals verified digit by digit: in the table 6, 0·03, 1·5, 0·25, 0·5, 1·25; in the body Pl. XVII, fig. 9, 1954, 1954; the genus heading 1888, 1827, 1954, p. 40; the species heading 1827, Text-figures 49, 50; the synonymy 1827, 1830, (1833), 1834, 1897b, 1931, 1954; then 1931, text-figure 50, 1897b, Pl. IV, figs. 1, 7, 9, 1897b, Pl. IV, fig. 3, text-fig. 50, 1954, text-fig. 8, text-fig. 49. Note the double date on the Stephanomia line, "Quoy & Gaimard (1833), 1834", with the earlier year in parentheses before the later one — printed exactly so, and verified at 3×. Chun's plates are cited in roman numerals (Pl. IV) whereas Totton's own plate on the preceding page is Pl. XVII.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a faint hair or fleck in the top margin above the running head at the right, a short dash-like fleck in the right margin level with "Bigelow suggested that", specks in the right margin level with "Melophysa melo Totton, 1954" and with "Bay. The possession of soft flexible bracts", and a speck in the left margin level with "some which bears only a few".]

<<<PAGE pdf=95 file=page_095.txt>>>
[PAGE 90]
[RUNNING HEAD] 90	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Gastrozooids and tentacles:   Of the usual agalmid type, with thick walled basigasters, alternating radially with the lamellae. Bigelow counted eight gastrozooids. Tentilla tricornuate and involucrate. The cnidoband has seven or eight coils. The involucre may cover them or become contracted down to the base in preserved specimens.

Gonodendra:   Both male and female on same specimen in pairs, each pair alternating radially with the gastrozooids. The detailed structure is not yet understood.

Palpons:   There is a ring of nine palpons in the post-larva. Presumably these give rise to gonodendra.

[FIGURE]
FIG. 49.   Melophysa melo Q. & G.
Whole animal, × 7, with only one bract retained. The large nectophore has become twisted upside down (after Bigelow, 1931).
[/FIGURE]

Nectophores (text-fig. 50):   Probably only one functional at one time. They appear to be either rather primitive or reduced, somewhat flattened from above downwards, with a lateral ridge on each side and three longitudinal ridges on the upper side, best marked at the ostial end. There is a distinct pedicel as in agalmid buds of nectophores. The lateral radial canals form a loop on to the under side at mid-length. The dorsal radial canal is sinuous. In Bigelow's (1931) figure 217 the nectophore in my view has become twisted through 180° judging by the position of the ventral loop of the lateral radial canal, and the lateral ridges are somewhat contorted.

Very little material of this species has been reported in recent years. For this reason two additional records of identification of 'Discovery' specimens taken in the Peru Coastal Current (or Humboldt Current) are given here:

'William Scoresby' St. 707, 05° 37·5'S, 84° 31·5'W.
'William Scoresby' St. 713, 04° 20'S, 81° 37'W.

[NOTE: printed folio 90 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 95, offset −5 holds. No printed square brackets occur on this page.

Layout: text-fig. 49 occupies the whole middle third of the page, set full measure between the "Palpons:" paragraph and the "Nectophores" paragraph, with its caption centred below the drawing in a narrow measure. The page is single-column throughout. It ends with the two station records and about a tenth of the page blank below; there is no signature mark on this page (the "7" was on p. 89 opposite).

The drawing carries no lettering whatever — no leader labels, no panel letters, no scale bar and no engraved numbers — checked over the whole illustration at 1.6× and 2×. The [FIGURE] block therefore holds only the printed caption, and the illustration is deliberately not described. In the caption "FIG." is small capitals, "Melophysa melo" is italic, and the authority is abbreviated to roman "Q. & G." for Quoy & Gaimard; the magnification "× 7" uses a saltire multiplication cross. The caption is set in smaller type than the body, with the first line centred and the following three lines flush left in a block narrower than the text measure.

The two station lines are indented from the left margin and are transcribed one to a line as printed. Their numerals were read digit by digit at 5× magnification: St. 707 at 05° 37·5'S, 84° 31·5'W, and St. 713 at 04° 20'S, 81° 37'W. Note the leading zeros in the latitudes ("05°", "04°"), that the minutes on the first line carry decimal halves written with raised middle dots ("37·5", "31·5") while those on the second line are whole ("20", "37"), and that the minutes symbol is a single prime set close up against the hemisphere letter with no space ("37·5'S"). The degree symbols are separated from the figures by a thin space. In "twisted through 180°" the degree sign likewise follows a thin space.

Italic in the body: the side-headings "Gastrozooids and tentacles:", "Gonodendra:", "Palpons:", "Nectophores". Single curly quotes enclose 'Discovery' and both occurrences of 'William Scoresby'; the ship names are roman inside the quotes, not italic. Numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 49, × 7, 1931, text-fig. 50, 1931, figure 217, 180°, 707, 05, 37·5, 84, 31·5, 713, 04, 20, 81, 37.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: specks in the white space just below the "Palpons" paragraph (two, near the centre of the page), single specks in the right margin level with the upper part of the figure and again level with "records of identification of 'Discovery'", a speck in the left margin level with the figure and another level with "my view has become twisted", and a fleck below the last station line. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=96 file=page_096.txt>>>
[PAGE 91]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 8 RHODALIIDAE	91

[FIGURE]
3mm
2
1
0
A
F.d-l.
R.d-l
C
E
0
3.mm
B
C.radd.
C.rad.lat
C.rad.lat
D

FIG. 50.   Melophysa melo Q. & G. Nectophores × 7
A, C, viewed from the upper side; B, D, from the ostial side; E, from the left side. A, from Bermuda, Beebe Coll.;
B, 'Discovery' St. 692; C, D, E, 'Discovery' St. 1580
C.rad.lat = lateral radial canal; C.rad.d = dorsal radial canal; F.d–l = dorso-lateral fold; R.d–l = dorso-lateral ridge (from Totton, 1954, fig. 7).
[/FIGURE]

Family 8: RHODALIIDAE Haeckel, 1888

Angelidae Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

Physonects in which an enlarged homologue of the pneumatochone or basal, gas secreting area of the pneumatosaccus protrudes on one side at the junction between the pneumatophore and the corm to form a characteristic structure, the aurophore. The nectosome and siphosome form a globular corm below the large pneumatophore. Both nectophores and bracts are developed, the simple sac-like nectophores forming a corona of one or more rows. The cormidia are borne on prominences. The zone of proliferation of the cormidia lies opposite to the aurophore.

The correct interpretation of the so-called aurophore was made by Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908) and by Bigelow (1911b).

The family name Angelidae Fewkes used by Lens & van Riemsdijk is unfortunate on nomenclatural grounds, as Bigelow (1911b) pointed out, for Angela,* Lesson (1843), is a synonym of Athorybia and is not as closely related as Fewkes supposed to his Angelopsis. Bigelow reviewed the family very thoroughly in his 'Albatross' report (1911b). Since then, very little additional material has been found. For this reason it seems to be unnecessary to summarize the review, which itself should be consulted.

When more specimens have been studied, it may be decided that Rhodalia, Stephalia, Stephonalia, and Angelopsis are congeneric.

It is difficult to extract from the descriptions of generally imperfect specimens of rhodaliidae what

[FOOTNOTE] * Stechow (1921) published a new name Anga for Angela, Lesson, 1843 (preoccupied by Serville, 1839 for Orthoptera). This would have necessitated writing Angiidae for Angelidae sensu Fewkes.

[NOTE: printed folio 91 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 96, offset −5 holds. No printed square brackets occur on this page.

Layout: text-fig. 50 occupies the top half of the page, full measure, as five outline drawings in two rows — three in the upper row (lettered A, C, E from left to right) and two in the lower row (B at the left, D at the centre) — with the four-line caption centred beneath. The family heading, the family synonym line, the diagnosis and four further paragraphs follow, and a footnote keyed by an asterisk sits at the foot below a blank gap. There is no rule between text and footnote.

The seventeen items inside [FIGURE] are exactly the hand-lettered characters printed within the drawing and nothing else; the illustration is deliberately not described. They are grouped panel by panel, since the two rows interleave vertically and a strict left-to-right sweep would separate a scale from its panel. Upper row: the vertical scale bar standing to the left of panel A is lettered "3mm" above its top tick, then "2" and "1" against intermediate ticks and "0" at the foot, with one further unlabelled tick between "2" and "3mm"; the panel letter "A" sits at the lower left of the first drawing; "F.d-l." is at the upper right with a broken leader running down-left into the drawing, and "R.d-l" at the lower right with a similar leader; "C" is at the lower left of the middle drawing and "E" at the lower right of the third. Lower row: the horizontal scale bar under panel B is lettered "0" at its left end and "3.mm" above its right end, with two intermediate ticks, and "B" stands to the right of that scale; "C.radd." is at the upper right of panel D with a long broken leader, "C.rad.lat" at the right of panel D preceded by a broken leader, a second "C.rad.lat" at the left of panel D followed by a leader, and "D" at the lower right of that drawing.

Three printed inconsistencies between the hand-lettered labels and the printed legend, all preserved as lettered. (1) The label in the drawing is "C.radd." — C, point, r, a, d, d, point, verified at 10× — whereas the legend spells the same abbreviation "C.rad.d". (2) "F.d-l." in the drawing carries a final point and uses a plain hyphen; the legend has "F.d–l" with no final point and an en-dash. (3) "R.d-l" in the drawing has a hyphen and no final point; the legend has "R.d–l" with an en-dash. The two "C.rad.lat" labels in the drawing agree with the legend and carry no final point. All the drawing's lettering is a sloped hand-drawn sans-serif; the hand-lettered numeral "1" on the vertical scale is drawn as a short slanted stroke with a detached dot below it and so resembles an exclamation mark at low magnification — at 10× it is the same hand's "1", matching the "1" that opens "3mm" above it, and it is transcribed as 1.

Caption type: "FIG." is small capitals, "Melophysa melo" italic, "Q. & G." roman, and "× 7" uses a saltire multiplication cross. In the legend line the abbreviations "C.rad.lat", "C.rad.d", "F.d–l" and "R.d–l" are bold italic, the definitions roman, and each "=" is printed as a double-stroke equals glyph. The caption's first three lines are centred and the fourth wraps to a flush-left continuation.

Numerals verified digit by digit: × 7, St. 692, St. 1580, 1954, fig. 7; then Family 8, 1888, 1908; 1908, 1911b, 1843, 1911b, 1911b; and in the footnote 1921, 1843, 1839. Note "St. 1580" is four figures and "St. 692" three, checked separately at 3.5×; and that Bigelow is cited three times as "1911b" with the letter suffix each time.

Italic in the text: "Angelidae" in the synonym line, "Angela", "Athorybia", "Angelopsis" (twice), "Rhodalia", "Stephalia", "Stephonalia"; in the footnote "Anga", "Angela" and "sensu" are italic while "Angiidae" and "Angelidae" are roman. The family heading is roman "Family 8:" with a thin space before the colon, then bold "RHODALIIDAE" in capitals, then roman "Haeckel, 1888". "Stephonalia" is spelt with an "o" in the second syllable where "Stephalia" precedes it in the same list — printed so, verified at 2.5×, and not corrected. Single curly quotes enclose 'Albatross' and both occurrences of 'Discovery'.

The asterisk in the text stands immediately after "Angela," — that is, after the comma — and is matched by the asterisk opening the footnote.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: specks in the right margin level with panel E, with "of the pneumatosaccus protrudes", with "and Angelopsis are congeneric" (two, close together) and below the footnote; a speck in the left margin level with "The family name Angelidae"; and faint flecks in the top margin. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=97 file=page_097.txt>>>
[PAGE 92]
[RUNNING HEAD] 92	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

characters are of generic and specific importance. The following descriptions are necessarily very imperfect and tentative.

Genus: RHODALIA Haeckel, 1888

Monotypic genus for Rhodalia miranda Haeckel, 1888.

The corm is in the form of a spongy mass and does not contain a large central cavity. The aurophore is smooth walled. A shallow hypocystic cavity of great breadth in the nectosome (Bigelow, 1911b, p. 309). Siphosome traversed by a network of innumerable small canals. General ground-substance cartilaginous in consistency as in Angelopsis.

Rhodalia miranda Haeckel, 1888

This specific name was based on four 'Challenger' specimens, three of which are still in the collection of the British Museum (Natural History), the sole remnants of this historic collection of siphonophores. The characters of the species are given above under Rhodalia.

The original specimens measured from 30–50 mm in diameter. The largest specimen bore a corona of from 50–80 (or more) nectophores in three alternating annular series, though the muscular lamellae form a single ring. Each cormidium of the siphosome consists of a conical mesogloeal bulb bearing a single gastrozooid with a long tentacle and a clustered gonodendron bearing gonophores of both sexes and a single palpon.

Auralia profunda, a nomen nudum for a rhodaliid with nectophores arranged in a single circle, may have referred to a young specimen of R. miranda, in which case Auralia could be a synonym of Rhodalia.

Genus: STEPHALIA Haeckel, 1888

Monotypic genus for S. corona Haeckel, 1888b.

? Stephonalia Haeckel, 1888b
? Steleophysema Moser, 1925
? Sagamalia Kawamura, 1954

The corm is bulbous and solid. The aurophore is smooth walled. Trefoil-headed, nail-like bracts are present on the cormidia.

Stephalia corona Haeckel, 1888
Plate XVIII, figures 1–4; text-figure 51

? Stephonalia bathyphysa Haeckel, 1888b
? Steleophysema aurophora Moser, 1924b
? Steleophysema auronecta Moser, 1925
? Sagamalia hinomaru Kawamura, 1954

A most interesting specimen of a rhodaliid siphonophore in the D'Arcy Thompson collection, was presented in 1956 to the British Museum (Natural History) by Queen's College, Dundee, University of St. Andrews. It was taken nearly fifty years ago by F.C. 'Goldseeker' during North Sea Investigations by the Scottish Fishery Board in a frynet on August 17, 1907, at a position 59° 35'N, 7° 00'W, just to the south of the Wyville Thomson Ridge at the entrance to the Faroe Channel. The depth given is 1,140 m, but the net was not a closing one. Apart from the 'Challenger' specimens of Rhodalia miranda the Museum has never possessed a rhodaliid specimen.

The particular interest of this specimen is that it still bears some beautifully preserved bracts of very distinctive shape (Pl. XVIII, fig. 4). In only two specimens of a rhodaliid hitherto has the pre-

[NOTE: printed folio 92 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 97, offset −5 holds. No figures, tables or footnotes; no signature mark. The page ends mid-word at "has the pre-" (hyphen printed at the line end, catchword continuing on p. 93), and the whole page is single-column.

No printed square brackets occur on this page. There is, however, a related printed feature that a later reader must not confuse with transcriber markup: seven synonymy lines begin with a bare printed question mark followed by a space — "? Stephonalia Haeckel, 1888b" and the rest. These query marks are Totton's own, printed in roman at the head of each line and standing outside the italic that begins with the genus name, exactly as the bare "[?]" queries elsewhere in the volume are his. They are not transcriber uncertainty markers, and no [?reading] marker was used anywhere on this page. The two blocks of query-marked synonyms are indented slightly less than the body paragraphs and are set in the same small type as the synonymies on pp. 87 and 89.

Printed inconsistencies preserved as printed. The genus heading reads "Genus: STEPHALIA Haeckel, 1888" without a letter suffix, while the line immediately below gives the type species as "S. corona Haeckel, 1888b" with the suffix, and the species heading further down reads "Stephalia corona Haeckel, 1888" again without it — three citations of the same authority, two unsuffixed and one suffixed, verified at 4×–5×. Likewise "Stephonalia" appears here with an "o" in the second syllable in both the generic and the specific synonym lines, beside "Stephalia" in the headings; this matches the spelling in the list of possibly congeneric genera on p. 91 opposite and is transcribed as printed.

Type: both genus headings are roman "Genus:" with a thin space before the colon, then bold italic capitals ("RHODALIA", "STEPHALIA"), then roman authority. Species headings are bold italic upper- and lower-case with roman authority; the second line of the Stephalia corona heading, "Plate XVIII, figures 1–4; text-figure 51", is roman with an en-dash in the range. Italic in the body: "Rhodalia miranda", "Angelopsis", "Rhodalia", "Auralia profunda", "nomen nudum", "R. miranda", "Auralia", "Rhodalia", "S. corona", every genus and species name in the seven query lines, and "Rhodalia miranda" in the D'Arcy Thompson paragraph. Single curly quotes enclose 'Challenger' (twice) and 'Goldseeker'; the apostrophes in "D'Arcy" and "Queen's" are the same curly form.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 1888, 1888, 1911b, p. 309, 1888, 30–50 mm, 50–80, 1888, 1888b, 1888b, 1925, 1954, 1888, XVIII, 1–4, 51, 1888b, 1924b, 1925, 1954, 1956, August 17, 1907, 59° 35'N, 7° 00'W, 1,140 m, XVIII, fig. 4. The two zeros of "00'W" are old-style figures shaped like small o's and were checked at 8× to be a pair of zeros and not the letter o; the latitude minutes read 35 and the longitude has no leading zero on the 7. The degree signs follow a thin space, the minute marks are single primes set close up to the hemisphere letters, and the thousands separator in "1,140 m" is a comma. Note the two letter suffixes in Moser's dates, "1924b" and "1925", which differ from each other, and Haeckel's "1888b" on the query lines against plain "1888" in the headings. Ranges "30–50" and "50–80" use en-dashes.

"F.C. 'Goldseeker'" is printed with the two initials closed up and no space between them, verified at 3×. "Wyville Thomson Ridge" is spelt with one "s" in Thomson here, against "Wyville" with a y.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a small tick in the right margin level with "substance cartilaginous", another level with "are present on the cormidia", a fleck in the left margin level with "Genus: STEPHALIA", a short dash-like fleck in the right margin level with "? Sagamalia hinomaru", a speck in the right margin level with the Stephalia corona heading, and faint specks in the top margin above the running head. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=98 file=page_098.txt>>>
[PAGE 93]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 8 RHODALIIDAE	93

[FIGURE]
G.KINNS.

FIG. 51.   Stephalia corona Haeckel
Reconstruction of the whole animal (Dundee specimen), expanded and contracted, × 3
[/FIGURE]

sence of bracts been noted. One was by Kawamura (1954) in a specimen described and figured as a new species of a new genus, Sagamalia hinomaru, taken by the boat of the Emperor of Japan in Sagami Bay in 1935 at a depth of 450 metres. Another Japanese specimen Steleophysema aurophora was briefly described by Moser (1924b, 1925).

The rhodaliid group is not well known, since specimens are rarely taken. When they are, they are usually defective. The only good review of the various species is that of Bigelow (1911b), to which the reader is referred. The specimen in question was labelled Stephalia corona Haeckel, and this may well be its proper name. But unfortunately none of the four specimens on which Haeckel (1888b)

[NOTE: printed folio 93 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 98, offset −5 holds. No printed square brackets occur on this page, and no printed bare query marks either.

Layout: text-fig. 51 fills the upper three-quarters of the page as a single large drawing, full measure, with a two-line caption centred beneath it; only two paragraphs of text follow, the first continuing from p. 92 (it opens mid-word with "sence of bracts", completing "pre-sence") and the last breaking off at "Haeckel (1888b)" at the foot. Single column throughout, and no signature mark.

The only lettering physically present inside the drawing is the engraver's signature at the lower left, "G.KINNS." — verified at 9× as a capital G, a full point, a large capital K and then INNS in smaller capitals, closed with a full point. There are no leader labels, no panel letters, no engraved numbers and no scale bar anywhere in the illustration (the magnification × 3 is given in the caption), so the [FIGURE] block holds the signature and the caption and nothing else. The illustration is deliberately not described.

Caption type: "FIG." small capitals, "Stephalia corona" italic, "Haeckel" roman; the second line is roman with "(Dundee specimen)" in round brackets and "× 3" using a saltire multiplication cross. The first caption line is centred and the second is a wider centred line.

Italic in the body: "Sagamalia hinomaru", "Steleophysema aurophora", "Stephalia corona". Numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 51, × 3, 1954, 1935, 450 metres, 1924b, 1925, 1911b, 1888b. Note the depth is given in words as "metres" here, not abbreviated "m" as on p. 92, and that Moser's two dates differ in suffix ("1924b" against plain "1925"), matching the synonymy on p. 92.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a faint tick in the top margin above the running head at the right, small specks in the right margin level with the upper part of the drawing and again level with "(Dundee specimen)", a short slanting fleck in the right margin just below the caption, a speck in the left margin level with the middle of the drawing, and a speck in the right margin near the foot. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=99 file=page_099.txt>>>
[PAGE 94]
[RUNNING HEAD] 94	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

based his account and figures of that species are known to be in existence. Two of them were taken in the Faroe Channel and Shetland Islands and were described as lacking tentilla on the tentacles and bracts, both of which are present in the 'Goldseeker' specimen, which was taken not far away to the south-west. The absence of tentilla and bracts may be due simply to the fact that the 'Triton' specimens were defective. So we have only Haeckel's idealized drawings and account of what were probably defective specimens as a guide to identification. The water masses in which the 'Triton' and 'Goldseeker' specimens were taken may well have had a common origin in the open North Atlantic, but certainly not in the Boreal region.*

Hitherto, we have had only one record of the male gonophores of a rhodaliid – they seem to be monoecious – and very interesting records by Brooks and Conklin (1891) and Moser (1924b, 1925) of the female ones. Apparently the eggs in this group develop in an egg-sac and migrate into the female medusoids singly, taking up a position between the ectoderm and endoderm of the manubrium. Being very yolky, one egg almost completely fills the gonophore. Secondary manubrial endoderm grows up inside the manubrial ectoderm to form finger-like processes which almost surround the egg and nourish it. The whole arrangement seems to have been wrongly interpreted by Haeckel (1888b).

The Dundee specimen is a male and hence of particular interest. Brooks and Conklin suggested that males might be widely different from female specimens, but I do not think this is likely. They made the same prediction about Physalia which has proved to be untrue. I myself think that they were unable to distinguish the two sexes in Physalia, and thought that all the specimens they handled were males.

Rhodaliids have been taken – never in closing-nets – from depths of perhaps 100 m, rather than from greater ones in the North, Tropical and South Atlantic; and North and Tropical Pacific; as well as the Malaysian region. Moser's Steleophysema was taken at the surface.

Systematists have used such characters as (1) presence or absence of tentilla on the tentacles – their absence only means loss; (2) nectophores in one or more rows; (3) solid bulbous corm or thin walled corm; (4) axial canal through corm or absence of it; (5) large or small hypocystic cavity; (6) aurophore smooth or papillated; (7) Pneumatophore smooth or papillated. Perhaps the most satisfactorily described species is Dromalia alexandri Bigelow, based on fifteen specimens, but even these had lost the nectophores.   I think it possible therefore that nearly all described specimens of rhodaliids have been defective, and that perhaps they all originally bore bracts like the present specimen and Kawamura's one of Sagamalia. It may be that Rhodalia, Stephalia, Stephonalia, Steleophysema and Angelopsis are all congeneric, but we must await the capture of more material before arriving at a decision.

Meanwhile I shall regard the Dundee specimen as a well preserved male specimen of Stephalia corona with bracts still attached.

Description:   The specimen measures 25 mm × 27 mm, and 21 mm in the axial direction. The smooth walled pneumatophore is 9 mm in diameter, and is surrounded by a corona, 20 mm in diameter, of eighteen thin walled nectophores. There is one detached one. In a gap at one end of the corona is the smooth walled aurophore, in another at the opposite end the budding zone, in which region are the only two small nectophores. The smallest of these lies not next to the gap, but between two of the large nectophores nearby, suggesting that a secondary row of nectophores might have arisen later on. Few mature gastrozooids are still attached but there are many stumps from which they have broken off and sixteen were lying in the bottom of the container. However, there are about three dozen immature ones, the distal ends just peeping out from the globular basigaster in a way characteristic of young gastrozooids. Fourteen bracts are still attached by the proximal half of one side to the outer sides of gelatinous prominences, the cormidia, and there are fifty-four detached ones.

[FOOTNOTE] * For this opinion I have to thank Dr. J. H. Fraser of the Marine Laboratory, Aberdeen.

[NOTE: printed folio 94 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 99, offset −5 holds. No figures or tables; one asterisk-keyed footnote at the foot, set in smaller type and separated from the last text line by a blank gap with no rule. Single column throughout, no signature mark. The lower eighth of the page is blank below the footnote.

No printed square brackets occur on this page. The seven parenthesised numerals in the list of characters — "(1)" to "(7)" — are round brackets, printed as part of Totton's own enumeration, and are not transcriber markup. Likewise the asterisk after "Boreal region.*" is printed and keys the footnote; it follows the full stop.

Type: "Description:" is the only italic side-heading, followed by a wide (two-space) gap. Italic elsewhere: "Physalia" (twice), "Steleophysema", "Dromalia alexandri", "Sagamalia", "Rhodalia", "Stephalia", "Stephonalia", "Steleophysema", "Angelopsis", "Stephalia corona". Single curly quotes enclose 'Goldseeker' (twice) and 'Triton' (twice). The dashes setting off "– they seem to be monoecious –", "– never in closing-nets –" and "on the tentacles –" are en-rules with spaces, matching the practice on p. 86.

An abnormally wide gap — about two word-spaces — stands after "had lost the nectophores." before "I think it possible"; it is a compositor's spacing accident within the paragraph, not a new paragraph or a sentence break of any special kind, and is reproduced here as printed.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 1891, 1924b, 1925, 1888b, 100 m, (1) to (7), 25 mm × 27 mm, 21 mm, 9 mm, 20 mm. The multiplication sign in "25 mm × 27 mm" is a saltire cross. Counts given in words rather than figures and so transcribed: "fifteen specimens", "eighteen thin walled nectophores", "sixteen were lying", "three dozen", "Fourteen bracts", "fifty-four detached ones". Note "Pneumatophore" is capitalised mid-sentence inside item (7) while "aurophore" in item (6) is not — printed so, verified at 3×, and not corrected.

The footnote initials are printed "Dr. J. H. Fraser" with a space between J. and H., unlike the closed-up "F.C. 'Goldseeker'" on p. 92; verified at 5×.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the left margin level with "monoecious", a tick in the right margin level with "specimens of rhodaliids" (this one sits just outside the text measure and could be mistaken for a printed mark — at 3× it is a dust fleck), a speck in the left margin level with "Angelopsis are all congeneric", a speck in the right margin below the footnote, and a speck in the left margin well below the footnote in the blank lower area. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=100 file=page_100.txt>>>
[PAGE 95]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 8 RHODALIIDAE	95

The bracts are radially arranged so that their trifid, contiguous, truncated, interlocking outer ends appear to have formed a sort of carapace to the contracted living animal, at any rate in the equatorial region. A cormidium sometimes bears two or three bracteal lamellae. The palpons are numerous in places, but have been lost in others. The numerous pedunculate gonophores appear to be all male. There is no sign of an opening to the sub-umbrella. Radial and circular canals are visible in the gonophores. The numerous gonodendra are branched, and bear the palpons.

As in Dromalia and Rhodalia the cormidia appear to be slightly branched, new gastrozooids growing from the base of older ones. The tentacles bear tentilla with a single terminal filament. The various appendages are so numerous and well preserved that it is hardly possible to ascertain whether there is a spiral arrangement as in Dromalia. The single specimen is at present too valuable to dissect, so that it is not known whether there is a single axial canal leading to the protozooid, which has not been located.

Kawamura (1954) cited the evidence of a coloured sketch of the living animal that the pneumatophore, circular and radial canals of the nectophores and the distal halves of the gastrozooids were all brilliant red in colour.

He showed that the three distal corners of the bracts are heavily armed with nematocysts.

Genus: ANGELOPSIS Fewkes, 1886

Angelopsis Fewkes, 1889; Bigelow 1911b

Type species: A. globosa Fewkes, 1886.

Corm bulbous, the nectosome containing a 'hypocrystic' cavity, the siphosome solid but traversed by a network of canals. General ground-substance cartilaginous, in consistency as in Rhodalia.

Angelopsis globosa Fewkes, 1886

The only known specimen was inadequately described and figured in 1886, but after the publication of Haeckel's monograph (1888b) in which he set up the group Auronectae, Fewkes (1889) redescribed and refigured it in more detail (Pl. VII).

Pneumatophore:   Spherical, 7–10 mm in diameter, smooth-walled.

Corm:   Of same diameter as pneumatophore, globular, with central cavity. There is according to Fewkes (1889, Pl. VII, fig. 2) a wide hypocystic cavity, which may be part of the above mentioned central cavity.

Aurophore:   Smooth-walled.

Angelopsis dilata Bigelow, 1911
Plate XVIII, figures 5–7

Pneumatophore:   Voluminous, 5 mm in diameter, rounded and smooth-walled. No pigment has been recorded.

Corm:   Dumbbell-like, nectosome narrow, siphosome globular, semicartilaginous, with network of canals. Zone of proliferation opposite to the aurophore. Cormidia forming a spiral, on conical gelatinous prominences, one to each prominence. Tentacles not described. Gonodendra on gelatinous stalks, with two branches, one bearing female gonophores. Palpons present on both branches.

Aurophore:   Sac-like, smooth-walled, at junction of pneumatophore and corm.

[NOTE: printed folio 95 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 100, offset −5 holds. No figures, tables or footnotes; no signature mark. Single column throughout. The page is set with unusually deep blank bands — roughly two lines' worth after "armed with nematocysts.", again before the "Genus: ANGELOPSIS" heading, again before "Angelopsis globosa" and again before "Angelopsis dilata" — and the last eighth of the page is blank below "at junction of pneumatophore and corm."

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Printed inconsistencies preserved as printed. (1) The genus synonym line reads "Angelopsis Fewkes, 1889; Bigelow 1911b" — there is a comma after "Fewkes" but none after "Bigelow", verified at 4×. (2) The generic diagnosis has "a 'hypocrystic' cavity", in single quotes and spelt with an extra r, while the same structure is called a "hypocystic cavity" without quotes twelve lines further down under Angelopsis globosa and on p. 92 and p. 94; both spellings are transcribed as printed. (3) "Angelopsis dilata" is given the authority "Bigelow, 1911" with no letter suffix here, whereas the genus synonym line above and every other Bigelow citation in this section reads "1911b".

Type: "Genus:" is roman with a thin space before the colon, then bold italic capitals "ANGELOPSIS", then roman "Fewkes, 1886". "Type species:" is roman, followed by italic "A. globosa" and roman "Fewkes, 1886." Species headings are bold italic with roman authority; the second heading line "Plate XVIII, figures 5–7" is roman with an en-dash. Italic side-headings, each followed by a wide two-space gap: "Pneumatophore:", "Corm:", "Aurophore:" — the first two occurring twice and "Aurophore:" twice. Italic elsewhere: "Dromalia" (twice), "Rhodalia" (twice), "A. globosa". The synonym line "Angelopsis Fewkes, 1889; Bigelow 1911b" is set in small type with the genus name italic, and stands flush left, unindented, below the centred genus heading. "Auronectae" is roman, not italic.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 1954; 1886, 1889, 1911b, 1886; 1886, 1886, 1888b, 1889, Pl. VII; 7–10 mm; 1889, Pl. VII, fig. 2; 1911, XVIII, 5–7; 5 mm. Ranges "7–10" and "5–7" use en-dashes. Fewkes's plate is cited in roman numerals (Pl. VII) and Totton's own plate likewise (Plate XVIII).

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the top left margin above the running head, a speck in the right margin level with "visible in the", a fleck above "branched" in the line "The numerous gonodendra are branched" which at 3× is a dust hair and not an apostrophe or accent, a speck in the left margin level with "Genus: ANGELOPSIS", a speck in the right margin level with "(Pl. VII)", a short slanting fleck in the right margin level with the blank band above "Angelopsis dilata", and specks in the right margin near "rounded and smooth-walled". None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=101 file=page_101.txt>>>
[PAGE 96]
[RUNNING HEAD] 96	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Genus: ARCHANGELOPSIS Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Monotypic genus for Archangelopsis typica Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908.

Archangelopsis typica Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Plate XIX, figures 1, 2

Archangelopsis typica Bigelow, 1913

The corm forms a voluminous thin-walled sac. The aurophore bears numerous papilliform appendages on its surface.

Pneumatophore:   6 mm × 4 mm (the largest known specimen), flattened above, smooth.

Aurophore:   With prominences on the surface. A well preserved specimen captured by 'Albatross' in the NW Pacific near Japan, was reported by Bigelow (1911b).

Corm:   Sac-like, with one vast cavity, its walls not containing a network of canals (see Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. XVII, fig. 24); the cormidia were described by Bigelow (1913). They bear from one to three muscular lamellae to which bracts were probably attached.

Genus: DROMALIA Bigelow, 1911
Monotypic genus for D. alexandri Bigelow, 1911b.
The corm, is bulbous, its upper part or nectosome of considerable length. Pneumatophore flattened apically and bearing gelatinous prominences on its outer rim. The aurophore bears numerous papilliform appendages. No hypocystic cavity in nectosome.

Dromalia alexandri Bigelow, 1911
Plate XIX, figures 3–6

Pneumatophore:   Flattened apically; with eight to eleven triangular gelatinous prominences on its outer rim. Radial septa present between pneumatocodon and pneumatosaccus.

Aurophore:   Sac-like, with numerous, hollow, papilliform appendages about 2 mm long on its surface, with terminal pores (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 24, fig. 6).

Corm:   Bulbous, its upper part or nectosome of considerable length. Zone of proliferation of nectophores and cormidia on the side opposite to the aurophore (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 24, figs. 1–3). Cormidia arranged in a spiral (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 23, fig. 11), on conical, gelatinous prominences (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 23, fig. 9). A number of gastrozooids and gonodendra are carried on a common peduncle. From two to four palpons with gonophores at their bases to each of the gonodendra which bud from the pedicels of the gastrozooids.

Tentacles:   With suspensorium at base. Tentilla tricornuate (Pl. XIX, fig. 6), probably with basal involucre.

Family 9: FORSKALIIDAE Haeckel, 1888

Forskaliidae Bedot, 1893b

Haeckel established this family for four supposed genera, Forskalia Kölliker, Forskaliopsis Haeckel, Bathyphysa Studer and Strobalia Haeckel (nom. nud.). As typical of Forskalia, Haeckel cited F. edwardsi Kölliker. Typical of Forskaliopsis he cited 'F. ophiura Leuckart' (= F. edwardsi Köll.), mentioning that in that form there were numerous 'tasting palpons' scattered between the nectophores. The only siphonophores which have tentacles budded from the nectosome are species of Apolemia. It is typical of Forskalia spp., as Bedot (1893b) pointed out, that the very long active palpons budded from the upper part of the siphosome habitually explore up among the nectophores, from between which their distal ends may protrude. Presumably Haeckel thought that such palpons were

[NOTE: printed folio 96 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 101, offset −5 holds. Single column throughout; no figures, tables, footnotes or signature mark. The page breaks off mid-sentence at "such palpons were", continuing on the next page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Printed oddities preserved as printed. (1) The genus diagnosis of DROMALIA begins "The corm, is bulbous," with a spurious comma after "corm", verified at 2.2x. (2) The genus heading reads "Bigelow, 1911" and the species heading "Dromalia alexandri Bigelow, 1911", both without a letter suffix, while the line between them reads "D. alexandri Bigelow, 1911b" and every citation in the body reads "1911b". (3) Under Archangelopsis typica the "well preserved specimen ... in the NW Pacific near Japan, was reported by Bigelow (1911b)" carries a comma before "was" with none opening the phrase. (4) Bigelow's plates are cited in arabic numerals under Dromalia (Pl. 24, Pl. 23) but Lens & van Riemsdijk's in roman (Pl. XVII), and Totton's own plate in roman (Plate XIX, Pl. XIX).

Type: "Genus:" roman, then bold italic capitals ("ARCHANGELOPSIS", "DROMALIA"), then roman authority. "Family 9:" roman, then bold roman capitals "FORSKALIIDAE", then roman "Haeckel, 1888" with a wide space before the date. Species headings bold italic with roman authority; the plate lines beneath them are roman with en-dashes in ranges. The two small-type synonym lines ("Archangelopsis typica Bigelow, 1913" and "Forskaliidae Bedot, 1893b") stand flush left, unindented, with the name italic and the authority roman. Italic side-headings each followed by a wide two-space gap: "Pneumatophore:" (twice), "Aurophore:" (twice), "Corm:" (twice), "Tentacles:". Italic elsewhere: "see" in every parenthetical cross-reference, "D. alexandri", "Forskalia" (three times), "Forskaliopsis" (twice), "Bathyphysa", "Strobalia", "nom. nud.", "F. edwardsi" (twice), "F. ophiura", "Apolemia", and "budded" in "tentacles budded from the nectosome". "Haeckel", "Bigelow", "Kölliker", "Studer", "Bedot", "Leuckart", "Lens", "van Riemsdijk" are all set in ordinary upper-and-lower case roman, not small capitals, on this page.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 96; 1908, 1908; 1908, XIX, 1, 2; 1913; 6 mm x 4 mm; 1911b; 1908, XVII, 24, 1913; 1911, 1911b; 1911, XIX, 3-6; 2 mm, 1911b, 24, 6; 1911b, 24, 1-3, 1911b, 23, 11, 1911b, 23, 9; XIX, 6; 9, 1888; 1893b, 1893b. The multiplication sign in "6 mm x 4 mm" is a printed multiplication cross, transcribed above as the character x in this note only; the body text has the cross itself.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the left margin above the folio, a speck level with "papilliform ap-" near the right edge, a fine slanting fleck in the right margin level with "Bigelow, 1911" in the Dromalia species heading, a similar fleck in the right margin level with the "Family 9" heading, specks in the left margin level with "Cormidia arranged" and with "form appendages", and a small speck between lines above "Bathyphysa". None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=102 file=page_102.txt>>>
[PAGE 97]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	97

budded from the nectosome. His Forskaliopsis, founded on this characteristic, may therefore be considered as a synonym of Forskalia.

Haeckel admitted that Bathyphysa was perhaps, as it obviously is, the representative of a separate family (see Rhizophysidae, p. 40). Strobalia cupola (nomen nudum) Haeckel said was observed living by him in 1881 in the Indian Ocean, and would be – but never was – described in his 'Morphology of the Siphonophorae'. He added that a fragment of a similar species 'Strobalia conifera' (nomen nudum) was collected by 'Challenger' in the South Pacific (Station 288). 'Strobalia' then is not a valid genus.

We are left with species of Forskalia, Köll, two of them easily identifiable.

Genus: FORSKALIA Kölliker, 1853
Type species: Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker, 1853.
Characteristic of Forskalia spp. is the cone-shaped or sometimes cylindrical nectosome of numerous, multiserial nectophores, all of which arise from one meridian of the coiled stem. In a contracted state the stem forms a close spiral, but it opens out very considerably on extension. The gastrozooids are borne on long peduncles that are covered with numerous bracts. These animals are well known to the Mediterranean fishermen. The oldest palpons readily eject a plum or orange coloured drop of liquid from their tips.

Associated in the older literature with descriptions and figures of obvious specimens of Forskalia spp. are seven valid specific names, four of them sunk in synonymy, two names for indeterminate species, one nomen nudum, one name of a mistakenly identified species (Physophora hydrostatica Forskål). Bedot substituted one new name for a prior name. In historical order these specific names are:

(1) Stephanomia ophiura Chiaje, 1831
an indeterminate species
(2) Physophora mirabilis Chiaje, 1841
an indeterminate species
(3) Stephanomia contorta Milne Edwards, 1841
(the first species described in any detail) = Forskalia leuckarti Bedot, 1893
(4) Stephanomia prolifera Milne Edwards, 1841
identifiable by its gonodendra as F. edwardsi Kölliker, 1853
(5) Stephanomia excisa Leuckart, 1853
nomen nudum. Provisional name for F. leuckarti Bedot, 1893
(6) Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker, 1853
the type species of Forskalia
(7) Forskalia formosa Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860, 1861
Syn: F. leuckarti Bedot, 1893
(8) Forskalia atlantica Fewkes, 1882
Syn: F. edwardsi Köll. (fide Bedot, 1893b; Schneider, 1898)
(9) Forskalia tholoides Haeckel, 1888
(10) Forskalia cuneata Chun, 1888

I have not included Forskalia hydrostatica (Chiaje, 1830–31), because I think it was a case of mistaken identification on the part of Chiaje, and that the name was not put forward as that of a new species.

It can be seen that our basic information on members of this group of siphonophores was mostly published a century or more ago by Milne Edwards (1841), Kölliker (1853), Leuckart (1853, 1854), Vogt (1854) and Kefferstein & Ehlers (1861). Claus (1863) also contributed.

[NOTE: printed folio 97 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 102, offset −5 holds. Single column throughout; no figures, tables, footnotes or signature mark. The page opens mid-sentence with "budded from the nectosome", continuing from the previous page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round, including the numerals "(1)" to "(10)" of the list.

Layout of the numbered list: each numeral is set in parentheses, right-aligned on the closing bracket so that "(10)" hangs one character further left than "(1)" to "(9)". The gloss beneath an entry is indented a further step and is a separate printed line, so line breaks are kept here.

Printed usages preserved as printed. (1) "We are left with species of Forskalia, Köll, two of them" abbreviates Kölliker as "Köll" with no full point, whereas item (8) has "Köll." with a point. (2) Bedot 1893 is cited without a letter suffix in list items (3), (5) and (7) but as "1893b" in item (8). (3) The dashes in "would be – but never was – described" are en-dashes with spaces; the range in "1830–31" is a closed en-dash. (4) "Forskål" carries the ring-a.

Type: "Genus:" roman, then bold italic capitals "FORSKALIA", then roman "Kölliker, 1853". "Type species:" roman with an italic binomen following. Italic throughout the list: every genus and species name, "F." abbreviations, "nomen nudum" in item (5), "fide" in item (8), and "see" and "nomen nudum" in the second paragraph. "Syn:" is roman. Author surnames (Haeckel, Kölliker, Leuckart, Milne Edwards, Bedot, Chiaje, Fewkes, Chun, Vogt, Kefferstein, Ehlers, Claus, Schneider, Forskål) are all ordinary upper-and-lower case roman, not small capitals. The running head is in spaced small capitals.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 97; p. 40; 1881; Station 288; 1853, 1853; 1831; 1841; 1841, 1893; 1841, 1853; 1853, 1893; 1853; 1860, 1861; 1893; 1882; 1893b, 1898; 1888; 1888; 1830–31; 1841, 1853, 1853, 1854, 1854, 1861, 1863. Item (7) reads "1860, 1861" — two years, comma-separated, not a range.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a short slanting ink-like stroke crossing the "ff" of "Kefferstein" in list item (7), which at 3x is a thin curved hair lying over the type and not a printed diacritic or an inserted letter — the word reads Kefferstein; a small caret-like fleck in the right margin level with "liquid from their tips"; a speck in the right margin level with "Mediterranean fishermen"; specks in the right margin level with items (3) and (5); a speck in the left margin level with item (3); and scattered specks between lines in the second and third paragraphs. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=103 file=page_103.txt>>>
[PAGE 98]
[RUNNING HEAD] 98	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Because of their transparency and very active movements these animals are difficult to examine. So the older descriptions did not include details of the bracts (for which see Leuckart, 1854; Totton, 1954). But Kölliker's account of F. edwardsi and Vogt's of Apolemia contorta – one and the same animal – enable one to recognize with certainty this common Mediterranean species. It is the only species of Forskalia about which we can up to now obtain a tolerably complete picture. It can often be examined alive under laboratory conditions at Villefranche and Naples.

There is no doubt about the existence of a second species F. leuckarti, but it was known in recent years chiefly from detached nectophores. A complete specimen is described on page 107.

There was some doubt, which I hope I have dispelled, about the existence of a third alleged Mediterranean species, F. contorta Milne Edwards, 1841. I maintain that it can be recognized by its gonodendra to be what Bedot called F. leuckarti. It was considered by Bedot (1893b) to be a distinct species. F. cuneata and F. tholoides are doubtful species.

It will be seen that the conclusions to which I have come about speciation in Forskalia are rather different from those reached by Bedot (1893b). This is simply because I agree with Leuckart (1854) in thinking that the specimens he had before him in 1854 (but not in 1853) were indeed the Stephanomia contorta of Milne Edwards (1841). There are two criteria which make possible the identification of this species. Milne Edwards clearly indicated one – the gonodendra – while Leuckart clearly indicated the other – the rete mirabile in the pedicel of the nectophore. I was lucky enough to recognize at Villefranche a museum specimen, probably the only one in existence, which exhibits both characteristics. The prior name of this species is contorta Milne Edwards. But because of a great deal of confusion in the synonymy of this genus, Bedot renamed Leuckart's – and Milne Edwards's species – leuckarti. I retain this name since it appears to be the modern practice not to change a synonymy when it has remained unchallenged for a long period of years.

Larvae of species of Forskalia have not been described as such as far as I recollect, but Claus (1863, Taf. XLVIII, figs. 30–35) figured as young physophorids what I believe to be larvae of Forskalia spp. I have observed similar living larvae at Villefranche, where they are often taken in the plankton. They can be identified as such by their possession of orange coloured pigment.

Those physonect polyps that the German pioneers used to call 'Tastern' and are now called palpons seem to have originated as gastrozooids but to have become morphologically degraded. Their physiology has not been studied as far as I am aware, but they certainly do not ingest food. Their single tentacles are simple instead of bearing branches like all other tentacles of gastrozooids, except those of Apolemia. There are no palpons in the Calyconectae except in Stephanophyes; and in the other calyconects the gonophores bud from the bases of gastrozooids, whereas in the Physonectae it is from the bases of the palpons that the gonophores arise.

In 1960, I described the development of palpons and gonophores in the cystonect, Physalia, where it can be seen clearly how the gonophores arise as buds from the pedicels of the palpons. In 1954 I showed how in Agalma elegans the gonophores arise at first from small prominences near the bases of the palpons on the sections of the stem (cormidia). Later, after elongation of these sections of the stem, the gonophores become more scattered. In Nanomia bijuga I have shown (text-fig. 35) how the bunches of gonophores arise from the bases of the palpons. In Forskalia the arrangement is essentially similar, but in this genus the protuberances from the bases of the palpons may become very much elongated. At first sight it was not easy to correlate the conditions found in the two species, F. edwardsi and F. leuckarti. In F. edwardsi the male gonophores arise from a large protuberance of the distal palpon, and the female ones from smaller protuberances of the more proximal palpons. In F. leuckarti the two bunches of female gonophores appear to arise from an enormously extended, terminally bifurcated protuberance, whereas the male bunch arises from a much smaller protuberance at its base. But careful analysis shows that it is the smaller male branch that is formed from the base of the distal palpon, while the elongated base of the female gonophores actually arises from the

[NOTE: printed folio 98 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 103, offset −5 holds. Single column, continuous prose, eight paragraphs; no headings, figures, tables, footnotes or signature mark. The page breaks off mid-sentence at "actually arises from the", continuing on the next page. The last sixth of the page is blank.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Punctuation as printed. (1) The parenthetical dashes are spaced en-dashes throughout: "Apolemia contorta – one and the same animal – enable"; "one – the gonodendra – while"; "the other – the rete mirabile in"; and "Bedot renamed Leuckart's – and Milne Edwards's species – leuckarti", where the second dash falls after "species" and not after "Edwards's", verified at 3x. (2) The figure range "30–35" is a closed en-dash. (3) "Milne Edwards's" takes 's after the s; "Leuckart's", "Kölliker's" and "Vogt's" likewise.

Type: the in-text cross-reference is set lower case roman as "(text-fig. 35)", hyphenated, and is not one of the small-capital "FIG." labels used under the figures themselves. Claus's plate is cited in German as "Taf. XLVIII" with roman numerals; "figs." is lower case roman. Italic: "see" in the first parenthesis; genus and species names ("F. edwardsi" four times, "Apolemia contorta", "Forskalia" five times, "F. leuckarti" four times, "F. contorta", "F. cuneata", "F. tholoides", "Stephanomia contorta", "contorta", "leuckarti", "Apolemia", "Stephanophyes", "Physalia", "Agalma elegans", "Nanomia bijuga"); the Latin terms "rete mirabile" and "cormidia". "Calyconectae" and "Physonectae" are roman, not italic. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman, not small capitals.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 98; 1854, 1954; page 107; 1841, 1893b; 1893b, 1854, 1854, 1853, 1841; 1863, Taf. XLVIII, figs. 30–35; 1960; 1954; text-fig. 35. Note the two different Leuckart years in one sentence — "before him in 1854 (but not in 1853)" — and that the internal page cross-reference is "page 107", spelt out, not "p. 107".

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the top right margin above the running head, a speck in the right margin level with "at Villefranche and Naples", a small double fleck in the right margin level with "Their single", specks in the right margin level with "recent" in the second paragraph and with "identifica-", and scattered inter-line specks in the long fourth paragraph. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=104 file=page_104.txt>>>
[PAGE 99]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	99

[FIGURE]
r
x
A
n
n

r
r
r
B
n
n

1mm

C
r
r
n
x

D
f
n
x

FIG. 52.   Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker
A young nectophore of a Villefranche specimen. A, B, ostial and side views; C, D, upper and under side of the same
f = fold; n = patch of nematocysts; r = system of ridges; x = lemon-yellow spot.
[/FIGURE]

penultimate and therefore more proximal palpon. It is almost incredible that the very elongate process that carries the two bunches of female gonophores is nothing but a protuberance from the peduncle of a proximal palpon, but that is the conclusion at which I have arrived: a conclusion that enables me to see a common pattern of budding of palpons and gonophores in those physonects in which these individuals have been studied.

There is always a tendency for palpons to bud repetitively and successively from the bases of their predecessors. In Forskalia edwardsi there is, as far as I have been able to discover, a single primary palpon (text-fig. 54). From its base when fully grown, buds a succession of smaller ones to form the gonodendron-complex. In F. leuckarti I have not been able to check the arrangement, but Leuckart (1854) described what appears to be an arrangement of up to four such groups. He used the terms 'Zwilling– und Drillingstaster' for such successions of palpons.

Kawamura (1954) published a paper in a journal which appears not to be taken in England, which contains a description and figures of an alleged new species F. misakiensis. The description and figures especially those of the bracts are not very detailed. I list it as a species inquirenda.

[NOTE: printed folio 99 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 104, offset −5 holds. Single column. No footnotes, no table, no signature mark. The page opens mid-sentence with "penultimate and therefore more proximal palpon", continuing from the previous page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Layout: text-fig. 52 fills the upper three-fifths of the page, four line drawings in two rows (A top left, B top right, C lower left, D lower right) set full measure, with a vertical scale bar standing in the left margin between the two rows. The caption is centred below the drawings, in type smaller than the body. Body text occupies only the lower quarter of the page, three paragraphs, with about a tenth of the page blank at the foot. Because the figure stands above the text rather than beside it, the [FIGURE] block is placed first, before the body text, in printed reading order.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the hand-lettered labels printed within the drawings and nothing else — the illustration itself is deliberately not described. They are grouped by panel, in panel order, and within each panel in reading order (top to bottom, left to right): panel A — "r" (leader to the upper left), "x" (leader from the top), the panel letter "A", then "n" at the right and "n" below; panel B — three "r" labels along the top, the panel letter "B", then "n" and "n" at the right; the scale bar — "1mm", printed rotated 90° so that it reads down the bar, with no space between figure and unit; panel C — the panel letter "C", two "r" labels at the right, "n" at the lower left, "x" at the foot; panel D — the panel letter "D", "f" at the right, "n" at the lower left, "x" at the foot. Panel letters are upright sans-serif capitals; the leader labels are upright sans-serif lower case, and each is joined to the structure by a fine ruled line. All were checked at 2.5x–3.5x. Total lettering: 4 panel letters, 6 "r", 7 "n", 3 "x", 1 "f", 1 "1mm".

Caption detail: "FIG." is small capitals followed by the old-style numeral 52 and a full point, then a wide gap, then italic "Forskalia edwardsi" and roman "Kölliker". The second caption line ends "upper and under side of the same" with no full point printed after "same" — verified at 3x — and the third line is the letter key, in which the italic letters f, n, r, x are each followed by a spaced equals sign and separated by semicolons. In the key the letters are italic, whereas the panel references "A, B" and "C, D" in the line above are roman capitals.

Type in the body: italic "Forskalia edwardsi", "F. leuckarti", "F. misakiensis", and "species inquirenda". "text-fig. 54" is lower-case roman, hyphenated, as elsewhere in this document. The German phrase is enclosed in single curly quotes and is set roman: 'Zwilling– und Drillingstaster', with an en-dash closed up to "Zwilling" and a space before "und", exactly as printed. Author surnames (Leuckart, Kawamura) are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 99; FIG. 52; text-fig. 54; 1854; 1954. Note that the figure on this page is number 52 while the text refers forward to text-fig. 54.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck above the running head near the centre, specks in the left and right margins level with the top row of drawings, a small double fleck at the left of the caption's first line, a curved fleck and a comma-like fleck in the right margin level with the lower drawings, a speck in the right margin level with "individuals have been studied", and scattered specks in the blank band at the foot. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=105 file=page_105.txt>>>
[PAGE 100]
[RUNNING HEAD] 100	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker, 1853
Plate XX, figures 1, 2

Stephanomia prolifera Milne Edwards, 1841
Stephanomia contorta Leuckart, 1853
Forskalia edwardsii Kölliker, 1853
Apolemia contorta Vogt, 1854
Forskalia ophiura Leuckart, 1854 ? ?
Forskalia ophiura Sars, 1857
Forskalia edwardsii Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861
Forskalia sp.1 Claus, 1863 (p. 545, Pl. xlvii, fig. 16)
Forskalia edwardsi Bedot, 1893b
Forskalia contorta Leloup, 1935
Forskalia edwardsii Totton, 1954

An abundant Mediterranean species whose appearance at the surface at places like Villefranche seems to depend on up-welling water. The stem, which may reach a length of seven or eight feet, may be coiled up closely during progression.

Nectophores (text-figs. 52, 53):   The nectosome consists of a conical or more cylindrical structure of numerous nectophores, all budded from one meridian of the stem. The proximal portion of the nectophore (exumbrella) is elongate, flattened from above, tapering and without the marked incision

[FIGURE]
A
x

5 mm

B
x

FIG. 53.   Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker
A full grown nectophore of a Villefranche specimen. A, upper side; B, under side
x = lemon-yellow spot.
[/FIGURE]

at the point of attachment of the muscular lamella found in F. leuckarti. There is a lateral basal projection and incision on the right side, and a projection on either side of the nectosac. A small sulphur-yellow pigment spot at the junction of the upper radial and circular canals is characteristic of the species, but there is no rete in the pedicular canal.

Gastrozooids:   Very mobile, 16 mm in length, on long peduncles 37 mm in length, bearing numerous pairs of bracts.

Bracts (see Totton, 1954, p. 71, text-figs. 29, 30):   Laterally compressed. Stem bracts leaf-like, pyramidal in outline, in pairs on each cormidium of the stem. Peduncular bracts of three types, in enantiomorphic pairs. At the base of the peduncle is a pair of bolster-shaped bracts, triangular in

[NOTE: printed folio 100 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 105, offset −5 holds. Single column. No footnotes, no table, no signature mark. The page breaks off mid-sentence at "triangular in", continuing on the next page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round. But note that this page carries the author's own printed query marks in the synonymy: the entry "Forskalia ophiura Leuckart, 1854" is followed by two italic question marks, spaced apart, "? ?", the second set slightly higher than the first. They were verified at 8x-9x and are printed matter — Totton's own doubt about that name — not transcriber uncertainty, and they are not enclosed in brackets. No other entry in the list is queried.

Layout: text-fig. 53 occupies the middle two-fifths of the page, two drawings side by side (A left, B right) with a graduated vertical scale bar standing between them, and the caption centred below in type smaller than the body. The figure interrupts the "Nectophores" paragraph, which breaks at "without the marked incision" above the drawings and resumes with "at the point of attachment" below the caption; the [FIGURE] block is placed at that break, in printed reading order.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawings and nothing else — the illustration itself is deliberately not described. Left drawing: the panel letter "A" at its lower left and "x" at its foot below a short leader. Scale bar between the drawings: "5 mm", printed rotated 90° so that it reads down the bar, with a clear space between the figure and the unit (verified at 9x) and with about a dozen ruled graduations along the bar, none of which is numbered. Right drawing: the panel letter "B" at its lower left and "x" at its foot. Panel letters and leader labels are upright sans-serif, the letters capital and the labels lower case. Total lettering: 2 panel letters, 2 "x", 1 "5 mm".

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 53, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia edwardsi", roman "Kölliker". The second line ends "B, under side" with no full point printed. The third line begins with an italic "x" followed by a spaced equals sign and is set flush further left than the second line, not centred with it.

The synonymy list is set in type smaller than the body, flush left and unindented, one entry per line, so its line breaks are kept. Spellings as printed, and they are not uniform: "edwardsi" (in the species heading, in the Bedot entry) beside "edwardsii" (Kölliker 1853, Kefferstein & Ehlers 1861, Totton 1954). "Forskalia sp.1" is printed with no space between "sp." and the numeral 1. Claus's plate is cited in lower-case roman numerals, "Pl. xlvii", unlike the capital roman numerals used for Totton's own plates ("Plate XX").

Type: the species heading is bold italic with roman authority; "Plate XX, figures 1, 2" is roman. Italic side-headings each followed by a wide two-space gap: "Nectophores", "Gastrozooids:", "Bracts". Italic elsewhere: every genus and species name in the synonymy, "F. leuckarti", "rete", "see", and the two terms "Stem bracts" and "Peduncular bracts" in the last paragraph. "text-figs." is lower-case roman. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 100; 1853; Plate XX, figures 1, 2; 1841; 1853; 1853; 1854; 1854; 1857; 1861; sp.1, 1863, p. 545, Pl. xlvii, fig. 16; 1893b; 1935; 1954; text-figs. 52, 53; FIG. 53; 5 mm; 16 mm, 37 mm; 1954, p. 71, text-figs. 29, 30.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: specks in the right margin level with the synonymy entries for Sars and for Claus, a group of three or four small flecks in the right margin level with the top of the drawings, a short dash and a tick in the far right margin level with the upper and middle parts of the figure, a speck in the left margin level with the middle of the left drawing, a speck just above the top of the scale bar, and a speck below the last line of body text. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=106 file=page_106.txt>>>
[PAGE 101]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	101

cross-section. Other peduncular bracts have a knee-like bend, giving them the shape of a laterally flattened sock. All the bracts have a shallow pocket between the distal facet and the upper, dorsal facet. The pocket is very wide in the stem bracts. In the more distal peduncular bracts it is very narrow. There are two or three pairs of tooth-like projections on the distal half.

The peduncular bracts of edwardsi can be homologized with those of leuckarti. The outer angle is obtuse, otherwise the pattern is similar, but the flange on the inner side of the upper face which overlaps the next distal bracts is less marked, and the bracts are arranged in pairs which are mirror-images of one another. They are much less thick than in leuckarti, in which the pocket is much less evident. There is no little spur-canal at the bend of the bracteal canal such as is present in the bracts of leuckarti, and the bend in the canal itself is obtuse instead of being right-angled.

[FIGURE]
S
P¹
G

FIG. 54.   Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker
A young growth stage of a gonodendron, × 12 (after Leuckart, 1853)
s = stem; P¹ = palpon; G = gonodendron, initial growth-stage.
[/FIGURE]

The arrangement of the bracts is as follows: In each cormidium there is a pair (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 29a, b) attached immediately on each side of the ventral meridian by muscular lamellae, which extend from a point immediately distal to the gastrozooid of the previous cormidium to the base of the gonodendron. Their pedicular canals arise from the stem at about one quarter of the distance between gastrozooid peduncle and gonodendron. They are mirror-images of one another. The uppermost pointed ends of my figured bracts are aboral. The bolster shaped bracts (id. fig. c) are attached in pairs to the basal part of the peduncle of each gastrozooid on the side facing the gonodendron. The proximal edges of their muscular lamellae overlap somewhat the distal oral edges of the lamellae of the stem bracts. In figure 29c the pointed end of the bract is the proximal stem end. The bracts shown in my (1954) text-figure 30 a–e are arranged in an alternating, overlapping fashion on the peduncles of the gastrozooids, those at the base resembling figure c, those at the distal end – there may be a succession of ten – resembling figures d and e. The pedicular canals of these peduncular bracts issue from the peduncle close to the proximal end of the next distal broad muscular lamella. The lamellae lie nearly in one meridian of the peduncle, which may twist. I suppose that one of the functions of these peduncular bracts is to give buoyancy to the gastrozooid peduncle, which projects out nearly at right angles to the stem.

Gonodendra (text-figs. 54, 55):   There is a single gonodendron between each two gastrozooid peduncles measuring 1 cm in length, of which the peduncle forms half. It is formed by a series of about six palpons, each with a palpacle, successively budded from the distal ends of the elongated

[NOTE: printed folio 101 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 106, offset −5 holds. Single column. No footnotes, no table, no signature mark. The page opens mid-sentence with "cross-section." and breaks off mid-sentence at "the distal ends of the elongated", continuing on the next page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Layout: text-fig. 54 occupies the middle third of the page, a single line drawing set full measure between two paragraphs, with its caption centred below in type smaller than the body. The [FIGURE] block is placed at that point, in printed reading order. About a twelfth of the page is blank at the foot.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the three labels printed within the drawing and nothing else — the illustration itself is deliberately not described. In reading order (top to bottom): "S" upper right, "P¹" in the middle right, "G" lower right, each standing free without a leader line. They are upright sans-serif. The label at the top is a capital "S", cap height, measured at 6x against the "G" below it and found the same height — whereas the caption key spells the same reference as an italic lower-case "s"; both are transcribed as printed. In "P¹" the numeral 1 is raised and smaller than the P, in the drawing as well as in the caption key.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 54, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia edwardsi", roman "Kölliker". The magnification "× 12" uses a saltire multiplication cross with spaces either side. The key line is "s = stem; P¹ = palpon; G = gonodendron, initial growth-stage." with the letters italic and each equals sign spaced.

Type in the body: italic "edwardsi" and "leuckarti" used as bare epithets without a genus (three occurrences of "leuckarti"); italic "see" and "id." inside the parenthetic references; italic side-heading "Gonodendra" followed by a wide two-space gap after the colon. Cross-references are lower-case roman and are not uniform on this page: "text-fig. 29a, b" and "text-figs. 54, 55" abbreviated, but "text-figure 30 a–e" spelt out; and plain "figure 29c", "fig. c", "figure c", "figures d and e" for the letters alone. In "30 a–e" the letters are separated from the numeral by a space and joined by an en-dash, while in "29a" and "29c" the letter is closed up to the numeral.

Punctuation: the parenthetical dashes in "those at the distal end – there may be a succession of ten – resembling figures d and e" are spaced en-dashes.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 101; FIG. 54, × 12, 1853; 1954, text-fig. 29a, b; figure 29c; 1954, text-figure 30 a–e; text-figs. 54, 55; 1 cm.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the top right margin above the folio, a speck in the right margin level with "of leuckarti, and the bend", a short dash and a tick in the far right margin level with the upper part of the drawing, a small tick in the left margin just below the drawing, a curved fleck in the right margin level with "The arrangement of the bracts", and specks in the right margin level with "the proximal stem end" and with "buoyancy". None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=107 file=page_107.txt>>>
[PAGE 102]
[RUNNING HEAD] 102	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

bases of their predecessors, and bearing bunches of gonophores on their bases. The terminal one bears male gonophores – about three bunches of fourteen, and the next proximal three bear bunches of smaller monovon female gonophores. No asexual medusoids – nectophores – are produced. The elongated bases of the successively budded palpons form the straight peduncle of the gonodendron. Though the distal bunch of male gonophores extends beyond the sixth palpon it may be regarded as an elongated extrusion from the base of the palpon.

Measurements:   Length of peduncle, 4 mm
Male gonophore, length 1·3 mm; diameter 0·6 mm
Female gonophore, length 0·6 mm; diameter 0·37 mm

Behaviour:   Leloup (1935) gave its rate of progression as 30–50 cm per minute. This rate seems a slow one. I regret that I have omitted to check it.

[FIGURE]
br
ped.gz
p³
p⁵
p¹
s
p⁶
br
p²
G
2 mm
♂
p⁴

FIG. 55.   Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker
A full grown gonodendron of a Villefranche specimen. In the background is the base of the pedicel of a gastrozooid.
br = bract; g = gonodendron; p¹–p⁶ = palpons; ped.gz = peduncle of gastrozooid; s = stem.
[/FIGURE]

Forskalia leuckarti Bedot, 1893
Plate XX, figures 3, 4

Stephanomia contorta Milne Edwards, 1841
Apolemia edwardsii Lesson, 1843
Stephanomia excisa Leuckart, 1853
Forskalia contorta Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860, 1861
Forskalia contorta Claus, 1863 (sp. 2, p. 545, Pl. xlvii, figs. 19, 21, 22)
Forskalia leuckarti Bedot, 1893b

A little known Mediterranean species. I know of only four sets of published figures of this easily identifiable species, characterized by the presence of a disc shaped pigmented rete in the pedicular canal of the nectophore.

The first set are those of Milne Edwards (1841, Pls. 7 and 8) showing the whole animal, the necto-

[NOTE: printed folio 102 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 107, offset −5 holds. Single column. No footnotes, no table, no signature mark. The page opens mid-sentence with "bases of their predecessors" and breaks off mid-word at "the necto-", continuing on the next page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Layout: text-fig. 55 occupies the middle two-fifths of the page, one large line drawing set full measure with a short horizontal scale bar standing free in its lower left quadrant, and a four-line caption centred below it in type smaller than the body. Below the caption, after a deep blank band, a new species treatment begins with its centred heading; the [FIGURE] block is placed in printed reading order between the "Behaviour" paragraph and that heading.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawing and nothing else — the illustration itself is deliberately not described. They are listed in reading order, top to bottom and left to right: "br" (upper left, on a leader crossing the outline), "ped.gz" (upper middle right, on a short leader), "p³", "p⁵", "p¹" (right edge), "s" (left, on a leader to the stem), "p⁶" (right), "br" (a second time, lower left), "p²", "G" (right), "2 mm" (below the scale bar, lower left), the male symbol "♂" (below the lower bunch of gonophores), and "p⁴" (at the foot). All are upright sans-serif; in each "p" label the numeral is raised and smaller, and the scale-bar legend has a space between figure and unit. Checked at 3.5x-5x. Total lettering: 2 "br", 1 "ped.gz", 6 "p" labels (p¹ to p⁶, one of each), 1 "s", 1 "G", 1 "♂", 1 "2 mm".

Two printed inconsistencies between drawing and key: the drawing labels the gonodendron with a capital "G" while the caption key gives it as a lower-case italic "g"; and the male symbol "♂" in the drawing is not explained in the key at all. Both are transcribed as printed and neither is corrected. The label "s" in this drawing is lower-case sans-serif (x-height), unlike the capital "S" in text-fig. 54 on the previous page.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 55, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia edwardsi", roman "Kölliker". The second and third lines are centred prose ending "the pedicel of a gastrozooid." The key runs on two lines, the letters italic, each equals sign spaced, entries separated by semicolons; "ped.gz" is italic with a full point and no space inside it, and the range is set "p¹–p⁶" with a short rule between the two superscript forms.

The measurements block is printed as three lines, the first beginning with the side-heading and the two following lines indented to align under "Length"; line breaks are kept. Unlike the other side-headings on this page, "Measurements:" is set roman, not italic, while "Behaviour:" is italic — verified at 3.5x. Decimal points are raised middle dots: 1·3, 0·6, 0·6, 0·37. The zeros are old-style and sit at x-height, so "0·6" resembles "o·6" in this face; they are zeros.

The synonymy list is set in type smaller than the body, flush left and unindented, one entry per line, so its line breaks are kept. The Claus entry cites "(sp. 2, p. 545, Pl. xlvii, figs. 19, 21, 22)" — note the three figure numbers 19, 21, 22, with 20 absent, and the lower-case roman plate numeral, as in the corresponding entry on p. 100. The species heading reads "Bedot, 1893" without a letter suffix while the last synonymy line reads "Bedot, 1893b".

Type: species heading bold italic with roman authority; "Plate XX, figures 3, 4" roman. Italic elsewhere: every genus and species name in the synonymy, "rete", and the side-heading "Behaviour:". Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 102; 4 mm; 1·3 mm, 0·6 mm; 0·6 mm, 0·37 mm; 1935, 30–50 cm; FIG. 55, p¹–p⁶, 2 mm; 1893; Plate XX, figures 3, 4; 1841; 1843; 1853; 1860, 1861; 1863, sp. 2, p. 545, Pl. xlvii, figs. 19, 21, 22; 1893b; 1841, Pls. 7 and 8. The range "30–50" uses an en-dash.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck above the running head near the centre, a speck in the left margin level with the upper part of the drawing, a speck in the right margin level with "p¹", specks in the blank band above the "Forskalia leuckarti" heading, a speck in the right margin level with the Leuckart synonymy line, and a small fleck low in the left margin below the last line of text. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=108 file=page_108.txt>>>
[PAGE 103]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	103

some, a nectophore, the female gonophores on the gonodendra, and some minor details. The second consists of figures by Leuckart (1854, Taf. XIII, figs. 8–17) of a nectophore, a bract and some buds. The third is by Kefferstein & Ehlers (1861, Taf. V, fig. 23), of a nectophore. The fourth is by Claus (1863, Taf. XLVII, figs. 21, 22 as Forskalia sp.2). In a footnote on page 545 Claus suggested that this specimen was one of F. formosa K. & E., of which species he wrongly alleged that no detailed description was given by Kefferstein & Ehlers. But these authors did give (1860, 1861) a diagnosis that was as adequate as usual in those days. It was a description of a specimen two feet in length taken at Messina. Claus figured a nectophore. In addition to these four sets of figures we also have long descriptions by Milne Edwards (1841) and Leuckart (1853, p. 38; 1854, p. 340).

Fortunately I recently recognized in the Musée at the Station Zoologique at Villefranche a well preserved specimen (No. 581) taken there in April 1927, and previously determined as F. edwardsi. Upon this specimen I can base a fresh, more detailed description, into which I have incorporated the salient features of the above descriptions and figures.

I agree with Schneider (1898, p. 157) in thinking that Leuckart's identification of his specimen with M. Edwards's Stephanomia contorta was correct. Bedot (1893b) asserted that it was incorrect. But Schneider had drawn attention to the rete in the pedicular canal of the nectophore of S. contorta figured by M. Edwards (1841, Pl. 8, fig. 4) and alluded to in M. Edwards's text (p. 221) as one of three little lobular appendices exhibited by the pedicular canal of the nectophore. (The other two are formed by the attachment of the muscular lamella of the pedicel.) And this discoidal rete is the criterion for identification of nectophores.

In his diagnosis, Leuckart says that 'the nectophores are incised at their point of attachment' – as they are in other species – 'and possess in the jelly of the umbrella a short distance from the nectosac a burning red pigment spot' – the rete which is one of the specific criteria – 'the cnidosacs and liver-stripes are similarly coloured bright-red'. To what extent particular shades of red will prove to be of systematic value we do not know. He continued, 'the bracts are either scaly or wedge-shaped with one thin and one thick edge and a bent central canal'. This tells us something of specific value about the bracts, but there the diagnosis ends. His further description deals mostly with generic rather than specific matters.

Kefferstein & Ehlers (1861) gave no description with their figure (Pl. XX, fig. 4) of the characteristic nectophore. Also they wrongly included in the synonymy Vogt's (1854) Apolemia contorta (= F. edwardsi Kölliker, 1853). Claus (1863, p. 545, footnote) made nine points in his brief description, including the critical one about the presence of a brick-red pigment spot in the pedicular canal, just short of the nectosac. His other points are of doubtful specific value.

My description is as follows:

Pneumatophore:   Slim and small in size.

Nectophores (text-figs. 56, 57, 58):   There are eight or nine right-hand spiral turns of the nectosome, each with nine or ten nectophores. The attachment to the muscular lamella lies in an incision, so that two dissimilar lobes are formed at the stem-end. This incision is deeper than in F. edwardsi. The nectophores are wider than deep and concave above. The mature nectophores I was able to examine only in situ (text-fig. 58), still attached to the nectosome, but I made detailed drawings of some detached immature ones. There is a deep, oblique lateral fold or inpocketing shown in text-figures A and B, which is much more pronounced than the one found in F. edwardsi. There is an incision on both right and left sides on the stem-side of and close to the lateral horns of the nectosac, instead of only one on the right-hand side in F. edwardsi. Leuckart gave the nectophore length from ostium to insertion of the peduncle as 7–9 lines (15–19 mm), width 7 lines (15 mm), thickness 3 lines (6·3 mm). I have assumed that Leuckart's line is equivalent to 2·116 mm.

There is a vertical, brick-red (fiery red), disc-shaped expansion, the rete of the pedicular canal of the nectophore measuring almost 2 mm in diameter. In early growth-stages it may not have developed

[NOTE: printed folio 103 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 108, offset −5 holds. Single column, continuous prose; no figures, tables, footnotes or signature mark on this page. It opens mid-word with "some," (completing "necto-" from the previous page) and breaks off mid-sentence at "it may not have developed", continuing on the next page. About a tenth of the page is blank at the foot.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Spelling as printed: "Kefferstein" with the double-f ligature, three times on this page — verified at 7x — not the "Keferstein" of modern usage; it is transcribed as printed, and the same spelling appears in the synonymies on pp. 97, 102. Also as printed: "Musée" with the acute; "M. Edwards" and "M. Edwards's" abbreviated in the third paragraph, beside "Milne Edwards" spelt out in the first; "K. & E." as the abbreviated authority for F. formosa; "Forskalia sp.2" with no space after "sp."; "in situ" italic.

Punctuation: spaced en-dashes bracket the interpolations in the fifth paragraph — "point of attachment' – as they are in other species – 'and possess", and "pigment spot' – the rete which is one of the specific criteria – 'the cnidosacs". Quotations from Leuckart are in single curly quotes, four passages in all. The sentence "(The other two are formed by the attachment of the muscular lamella of the pedicel.)" has its full point inside the closing parenthesis, as printed. The equals sign in "(= F. edwardsi Kölliker, 1853)" is printed as a plain equals with a space after it.

Type: italic side-headings each followed by a wide two-space gap: "Pneumatophore:", "Nectophores". Italic elsewhere: "Taf." in all three German plate citations, "Forskalia", "F. formosa", "F. edwardsi" (five times), "Stephanomia contorta", "S. contorta", "Apolemia contorta", "rete" (four times), "in situ". Cross-references are lower-case roman: "text-figs. 56, 57, 58", "text-fig. 58", and "text-figures A and B" spelt out. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 103; 1854, Taf. XIII, figs. 8–17; 1861, Taf. V, fig. 23; 1863, Taf. XLVII, figs. 21, 22, sp.2, page 545; 1860, 1861; 1841, 1853, p. 38, 1854, p. 340; No. 581, April 1927; 1898, p. 157, 1893b, 1841, Pl. 8, fig. 4, p. 221; 1861, Pl. XX, fig. 4, 1854, 1853, 1863, p. 545; text-figs. 56, 57, 58; text-fig. 58; 7–9 lines, 15–19 mm, 7 lines, 15 mm, 3 lines, 6·3 mm, 2·116 mm; 2 mm. The ranges "8–17", "7–9" and "15–19" use en-dashes; the decimal points in "6·3" and "2·116" are raised middle dots. Note that Claus's figures are cited here as "figs. 21, 22" whereas the synonymy on p. 102 cited the same plate as "figs. 19, 21, 22"; both are transcribed as printed. Claus's plate is capital roman "Taf. XLVII" here but was lower-case "Pl. xlvii" in the synonymies.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck above the running head left of centre, a speck in the left margin level with "nectophore measuring almost", a fine fleck in the left margin level with "figures A and B", specks between lines above "this specimen was one of", a speck above "are" in "His other points are of doubtful", a speck in the left margin low on the page below the last line, and scattered inter-line specks in the fifth paragraph. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=109 file=page_109.txt>>>
[PAGE 104]
[RUNNING HEAD] 104	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
1mm
R
N
F

FIG. 56.   Forskalia leuckarti Bedot
View of under surface of a young nectophore
F = fold; N = patch of nematocysts; R = future rete mirabile.
[/FIGURE]

or appears only as a slight ovoid expansion of the pedicular canal. There is an oval patch of nematocysts just above the stem-side of the outer ends of the wings of the nectosac.

Gastrozooids:   Forty to fifty on a 20 cm long specimen (contracted); from 10 to 19 mm in length. They are very mobile and are carried on long peduncles which measure 12 mm or more in length. There are from eight to twelve rose-red 'liver stripes' within the stomach. The cnido-band of the tentillum of the tentacle is fiery red in colour, with no involucre and is spirally twisted into two to four turns. On either side of the cnidoband is a lateral row of bean-shaped nematocysts, 0·51 mm long and 0·16 mm broad. The long terminal filament carries short bean-shaped nematocysts, 0·003 mm in length. There are two pairs of folded cords in the tentillum, very much better developed according to Leuckart than in Halistemma rubrum.

Bracts (text-fig. 59):   Very numerous, overlapping like shingles on a roof. When the peduncular bracts are lost the peduncles contract down to 2·1–3·2 mm in length. The majority of the peduncular

[NOTE: printed folio 104 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 109, offset −5 holds. Single column. No footnotes, no table, no signature mark. The body text opens mid-sentence with "or appears only as a slight ovoid expansion" and the page breaks off mid-sentence at "The majority of the peduncular", both continuing from and to the adjacent pages.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Layout: text-fig. 56 fills the upper two-thirds of the page, one large line drawing set full measure with a short horizontal scale bar standing free above and to the left of it, and a three-line caption centred below in type smaller than the body. Because the figure stands above the text, the [FIGURE] block is placed first, in printed reading order. The body text occupies the lower quarter, three paragraphs.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawing and nothing else — the illustration itself is deliberately not described. In reading order, top to bottom: "1mm" set into a gap in the scale bar at the upper left, with no space between figure and unit; then the leader labels "R" (centre), "N" (right), and "F" (lower right). All four were checked at 6x. The three leader labels are upright sans-serif capitals, each joined to the structure by a fine ruled line; the caption key gives the same three letters as italic serif capitals. Total lettering: 1 "1mm", 1 "R", 1 "N", 1 "F".

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 56, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia leuckarti", roman "Bedot". The second line "View of under surface of a young nectophore" has no full point printed. The key line reads "F = fold; N = patch of nematocysts; R = future rete mirabile." with the three letters italic, each equals sign spaced, and "rete mirabile" italic.

Type in the body: italic side-headings each followed by a wide two-space gap, "Gastrozooids:" and "Bracts"; italic "Halistemma rubrum"; single curly quotes round 'liver stripes'. "text-fig. 59" is lower-case roman. Printed as printed: "cnido-band" hyphenated at its first occurrence, mid-line and not at a line break, but "cnidoband" unhyphenated two lines later; both are transcribed as printed.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 104; FIG. 56, 1mm; 20 cm, 10 to 19 mm; 12 mm; 0·51 mm, 0·16 mm, 0·003 mm; text-fig. 59, 2·1–3·2 mm. Decimal points are raised middle dots throughout; the zeros are old-style, sitting at x-height, so "0·51", "0·16" and "0·003" resemble "o·51", "o·16", "o·oo3" in this face — they are zeros. The range "2·1–3·2" uses an en-dash. Note "from 10 to 19 mm" is written out with "to" while the bract range uses a rule.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck in the far left margin level with the lower part of the drawing, a short fleck in the upper part of the drawing area above the left lobe, a speck in the right margin level with the caption's first line, specks in the right margin level with "Halistemma rubrum" and with "in length", and two or three specks in the blank band at the foot of the page. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=110 file=page_110.txt>>>
[PAGE 105]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	105

[FIGURE]
r
r
s.u
ns.w.l
c.r.l
ns
f
A
v
1mm

1mm
r
f
n
B
s.u
c.r.d
c.r.l
l.m
f
ns.w.l
c.pa
c.ped
r.m
c.r.v

FIG. 57.   Forskalia leuckarti Bedot
Nectophores of Villefranche Museum specimen No. 581, × 29. A, ostial view; B, lateral view
c.r.d, c.r.l, c.r.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals; c.pa = pallial canal; c.ped = pedicular canal; f = fold; l.m = muscular lamella; n = patch of nematocysts; ns = nectosac; ns.w.l = lateral wing of nectosac; r = ridge; r.m = rete mirabile (rudiment); s.u = upper surface of nectophore; v = velum.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 105 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 110, offset −5 holds. There is no body text at all on this page: apart from the running head it carries only text-fig. 57 and its four-line caption. No footnote, no table, no signature mark.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round, including "(rudiment)" in the caption key.

Layout: two line drawings stacked, A filling the upper half and B the lower half, each set full measure, with two short horizontal scale bars standing free in the left margin — one below drawing A, one above drawing B. The caption is centred below drawing B in type smaller than the running head, its first line centred, the second centred, and the key running on as three further lines set nearly full measure.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawings and nothing else — the illustrations are deliberately not described. They are listed in reading order, top to bottom and left to right, and fall into two groups separated by a blank line, drawing A first then drawing B. Drawing A: "r", "r", "s.u", "ns.w.l", "c.r.l", "ns", "f", the panel letter "A", "v", then "1mm" set into a gap in the first scale bar. Drawing B: "1mm" in the second scale bar, "r", "f", "n", the panel letter "B", "s.u", "c.r.d", "c.r.l", "l.m", "f", "ns.w.l", "c.pa", "c.ped", "r.m", "c.r.v". All are upright sans-serif, the panel letters capital and the leader labels lower case, each leader label joined to its structure by a fine ruled line except the "f" in the upper part of drawing B, which is joined by a ruled line ending in an arrowhead, and the "f" at the right of drawing B, likewise arrow-headed. In the sans-serif labels the internal points are full points and there is no terminal point: "s.u", "ns.w.l", "c.r.l", "c.r.d", "c.r.v", "c.pa", "c.ped", "l.m", "r.m". Both scale legends read "1mm" with no space between figure and unit. Checked at 3x-3.5x.

Tally of lettering: 2 panel letters (A, B); 2 "1mm"; and, of the leader labels, "r" three times (twice in A, once in B), "f" three times (once in A, twice in B), "s.u" twice, "ns.w.l" twice, "c.r.l" twice, and one each of "ns", "v", "n", "c.r.d", "c.r.v", "c.pa", "c.ped", "l.m", "r.m" — 24 leader labels in all. Every abbreviation used in the drawings is explained in the caption key, and the key introduces none that the drawings lack.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 57, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia leuckarti", roman "Bedot". The second line ends "B, lateral view" with no full point printed. The magnification "× 29" uses a saltire multiplication cross. In the key the abbreviations are italic and the explanations roman, each equals sign spaced, entries separated by semicolons; the three canal abbreviations share one entry, "c.r.d, c.r.l, c.r.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals"; "rete mirabile" is italic and "(rudiment)" roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 105; FIG. 57; No. 581, × 29; 1mm, 1mm. The specimen number 581 is the same as that cited in the text on p. 103.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: two specks high in the page above drawing A, one near the centre and one a short dash to its left, a speck in the far left margin level with the upper part of drawing A, a speck inside the blank area of drawing B below "c.ped", a speck in the right margin level with the key's second line, and a fleck in the left margin level with the caption. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=111 file=page_111.txt>>>
[PAGE 106]
[RUNNING HEAD] 106	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
C
r.m
r.m
A
B
ns

FIG. 58.   Forskalia leuckarti Bedot
Nectophores and nectosacs of Villefranche specimen 581, sketched in situ, × 6. The aboral end of the stem is uppermost. A, part of a single nectophore; B, nectosacs of part of one turn of the nectosome; C, ostial view of one nectophore and (below) lateral view of a complete nectophore. ns = nectosac; r.m = rete mirabile.
[/FIGURE]

bracts appear to be all of one kind, namely laterally flattened and triangular in outline. The length of both the upper side and of the perpendicular outermost side is about 1 cm. These two sides are thicker than the hypotenuse which has a comparatively sharp edge. These peduncular bracts form mirror-image pairs. The bracteal canal lies close to the inner face, and makes a right-angle bend corresponding to the angle made by the two thick edges or facets. At this bend in the bracteal canal is given off a short branch inclined inwards and towards the angle. The photograph (Pl. XX, fig. 3) shows how these closely approximated angular bracts appear in optical section.

Four or five large leafy bracts are attached to the stem cormidium and partially envelop the bases of the peduncles of the gastrozooids. There is a transition in shape from these towards the triangular bracts.

Leuckart stressed the difficulty of forming an idea of the shape of the bracts.

Gonodendra (text-fig. 60):   As in F. edwardsi the gonodendra are formed by a series of palpons, each budding successively from the base of its predecessor. The gonophores are borne on secondary protrusions from these bases.

Leuckart (1854), like Milne Edwards (1841)* did not give a sufficiently precise description of the whole gonodendron-complex. I have been able to examine in detail only one gonodendron. It belonged to the complete specimen, No. 581, at Villefranche. Leuckart stated that there were up to four gonodendra between successive peduncles of gastrozooids. He deduced that they first appeared as a single pedunculate palpon with a simple palpacle. I reproduce (text-fig. 54) his drawing of an early growth-stage in F. edwardsi. That the primary palpon appears to bud from the gonodendron in the mature stage is only a question of relative growth. It can be seen at once that the mature gonodendron of F. leuckarti differs from that of F. edwardsi in that the basal extension of the simple palpon that bears the female gonophores is hypertrophied and overtops that bearing the male gonophores. It grows to a length of perhaps 30 mm, is probably highly contractile and is bifurcated at the distal extremity. There, each branch forms a globular terminal end, as shown in Milne Edwards's figure. They bear numerous female medusoid gonophores.

[FOOTNOTE] * It must be remembered that Milne Edwards was giving the first specifically recognizable figure of any species of Forskalia.

[NOTE: printed folio 106 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 111, offset −5 holds. Single column; no table, no signature mark. The body text opens mid-sentence with "bracts appear to be all of one kind", continuing from the previous page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round, including "(below)" and "(1841)" and the asterisk's parenthesis-free reference.

Layout: text-fig. 58 fills the upper quarter of the page, three grouped line drawings (C upper left with a second, smaller drawing below it at A, and B occupying the right half), set full measure, with a four-line caption below in type smaller than the body. Then a deep blank band of about two lines, then the body text. The footnote sits at the foot, separated from the last text line by a blank line and with no printed rule above it; it is set in type smaller than the body and is indented, beginning with a raised asterisk. Its reference mark is the asterisk printed immediately after "(1841)" in the sixth paragraph, with no space. About a fifteenth of the page is blank below the footnote.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawings and nothing else — the illustrations are deliberately not described. In reading order, top to bottom: the panel letter "C", "r.m" at the upper right, "r.m" again at the left of the upper drawing, the panel letter "A", the panel letter "B", and "ns" at the lower right. All are upright sans-serif, the panel letters capital and the two leader labels lower case with an internal full point and no terminal point, each joined to the structure by a fine ruled line. Checked at 3x. Total lettering: 3 panel letters (A, B, C), 2 "r.m", 1 "ns"; there is no scale bar on this page, the scale being given as "× 6" in the caption.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 58, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia leuckarti", roman "Bedot". "in situ" is italic; "× 6" uses a saltire multiplication cross. The specimen is cited as "Villefranche specimen 581" with no "No." here, whereas the body text and the caption of text-fig. 57 both write "No. 581". In the key the abbreviations are italic and "rete mirabile" italic.

Printed oddities preserved as printed. (1) The colon after the side-heading's parenthesis, "Gonodendra (text-fig. 60):", is set in italic although the parenthesis before it is roman — verified at 4.5x. (2) There is no comma after the footnote reference in "like Milne Edwards (1841)* did not give", so the parenthetic comparison is unclosed. (3) "palpacle" is spelt so here and on p. 101; it is not "palpocil". (4) "Milne Edwards's" takes 's after the s.

Type in the body: italic side-heading "Gonodendra"; italic "F. edwardsi" (three times), "F. leuckarti", and in the footnote "Forskalia". "text-fig. 60" and "text-fig. 54" are lower-case roman. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 106; FIG. 58, 581, × 6; 1 cm, Pl. XX, fig. 3; text-fig. 60; 1854, 1841, No. 581, text-fig. 54; 30 mm. Note "1 cm" and "30 mm" are the only body measurements; "1" is the old-style figure one, easily mistaken for a small-capital I in this face.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck high in the left margin above the folio, a small dash in the far right margin level with the upper part of drawing B, a speck in the far right margin level with the middle of drawing B, a speck in the right margin level with the footnote, a speck in the left margin level with "mirror-image pairs", and two specks in the blank band below the footnote. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=112 file=page_112.txt>>>
[PAGE 107]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	107

The larger, oval, male gonophores are borne on a smaller extension of the base of another palpon. The two palpons whose bases give rise to the bunches of gonophores were found in my specimen to be almost opposite one another, some 2 mm from the stem, and to bear no palpacle. It is possible that the palpon carrying the male gonophores is in origin distal to the other palpon carrying the female gonophores. In that case the gonodendra of the two species would be essentially comparable in spite of the impression given by a first inspection.

Milne Edwards (1841) figured this unique type of gonodendron in his plate 7, figure 1 (nat. size) and plate 9, figure 1 (twice nat. size). In both figures the globular bunches of female gonophores can be seen at the ends of bifurcated peduncles. The position of the bunches of male gonophores, however, is not so clearly indicated. Milne Edwards used the same term 'prolongements flabellaires' for both the peduncles of the bunches of female gonophores and for the palpacles of the palpons.

The palpons themselves are vermiform and very active. They measure from 3–5 mm in length – perhaps ten times as much when fully extended. The terminal part of the lumen of a palpon contains a red liquid which is readily freed on disturbance and then colours the surrounding water blood-red. The nematocysts of the palpacles are arranged in numerous groups of 4–5. They are rounded and measure 0·005 mm in diameter.

The canal system of the male gonophores consists of the usual four radials and a circular canal. The female ones frequently have four also, but just as frequently they are atrophied, branched or reticular. One, observed by Leuckart, had six radial canals, and one eight. He noticed pulsation only at the ostial ends of the gonophores, and doubted if they broke away to swim freely.

[FIGURE]
s
B
fl
fl
5 mm
fl
A
2mm
D
E
c.br
s
1mm
C
gz

FIG. 59.   Forskalia leuckarti Bedot
Bracts of Villefranche specimen 581. A, B, C, views from above; D, E, lateral views. A, B, D, E
× 5; C, × 11
c.br = bracteal canal; fl = flange; gz = gastrozooid; s = stem.
[/FIGURE]

The Villefranche specimen
My observations on this specimen are as follows: The overall length of the retracted specimen is now 11 cm, and the diameter (maximum) of the upper spire of bracts 2·1 cm. The length of the nectosome is 3·4 cm, excluding the overlap of the upper part of the siphosome by the distal ends of the lower nectophores.

The nectophores are arranged in a right-hand spiral of seven turns, each consisting of six or seven nectophores, whose maximum width at the ostium is 1·2 cm, and maximum depth 0·5 cm (see text-

[NOTE: printed folio 107 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 112, offset −5 holds. Single column; no footnote, no table, no signature mark. The page breaks off mid-word at "(see text-", continuing on the next page.

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round, including "(nat. size)", "(twice nat. size)" and "(maximum)".

MARK ON THE PRINTED PAGE: in the second line of the caption a fine, straight, horizontal stroke is drawn through the words "D, E," — beginning just left of the D and ending just past the second comma, at mid-letter height. Examined at 9x it is a uniform ruled line about one pixel-row thick at 300 dpi, sitting on top of the type rather than in it, and it does not extend to the neighbouring words; it reads as a deletion mark made on this copy, not as printed matter and not as any rule the compositor would set. The letters beneath remain fully legible and are transcribed as printed, "D, E,", without any attempt to act on the deletion. Compare the printed page's own "D, E" two words later, which is unmarked.

Layout: the upper half of the page is four paragraphs of body text; then text-fig. 59 fills the middle, five grouped line drawings across the measure (A and C at the left with B above them, D in the centre, E at the right) together with three scale bars — one horizontal beneath B, one vertical between the left and centre groups, one horizontal beneath D. The caption follows, centred, in four lines of smaller type, its third line ("× 5; C, × 11") centred on its own. After a deep blank band of about two lines comes the italic side-heading "The Villefranche specimen", flush left and on its own line, and two further paragraphs. About a fifteenth of the page is blank at the foot.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawings and nothing else — the illustrations are deliberately not described. In reading order, top to bottom and left to right: "s" (upper right), the panel letter "B", "fl" (left), "fl" (right of B), "5 mm" (below the upper horizontal scale bar), "fl" (in the centre drawing), the panel letter "A", "2mm" (beside the vertical scale bar, printed rotated 90° so that it reads up the bar), the panel letters "D" and "E", "c.br" (left), "s" (right), "1mm" (below the lower horizontal scale bar), the panel letter "C", and "gz" (lower right). All are upright sans-serif, the panel letters capital and the leader labels lower case, most joined to the structure by a fine ruled line. Checked at 6x-9x. Total lettering: 5 panel letters (A, B, C, D, E), 3 scale legends, "fl" three times, "s" twice, and one each of "c.br" and "gz".

The three scale legends are not spaced alike, and are transcribed as they read: "5 mm" with a clear space between figure and unit; "1mm" with none; and the rotated "2mm" with at most a hair space, which at 6x is narrower than the gap between its two m's — I read it as unspaced, but a reader wanting "2 mm" would not be contradicted by the image.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 59, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia leuckarti", roman "Bedot". The specimen is "Villefranche specimen 581" with no "No.", as in text-fig. 58. Both magnifications use a saltire multiplication cross, and the second line of views runs over so that "A, B, D, E" ends one line and "× 5; C, × 11" begins the next; the break is kept here because the third line is separately centred. In the key the abbreviations are italic and the explanations roman; "gz" is italic with a swash-tailed z.

Type in the body: "The Villefranche specimen" is an italic side-heading standing on its own line. Italic elsewhere: "see" at the very end of the page. Single curly quotes round the French 'prolongements flabellaires', which is set roman. "palpacle" and "palpacles" are spelt so, as on pp. 101, 106.

Punctuation: "from 3–5 mm in length – perhaps ten times as much" has a closed en-dash in the range and a spaced en-dash for the parenthetic remark, in the same line.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 107; 2 mm; 1841, plate 7, figure 1, plate 9, figure 1; 3–5 mm, 4–5, 0·005 mm; FIG. 59, 581, × 5, × 11, 5 mm, 2mm, 1mm; 11 cm, 2·1 cm, 3·4 cm; 1·2 cm, 0·5 cm. Decimal points are raised middle dots and the zeros old-style, so "0·005" and "0·5" resemble "o·oo5" and "o·5"; "11" is two old-style ones. Ranges "3–5" and "4–5" use en-dashes.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes, distinct from the deletion stroke described above: a speck in the right margin level with "female gonophores" in the first paragraph, a speck below the upper scale bar to the right of "5 mm", a speck in the right margin level with the caption's third line, a speck in the far right margin level with drawing E, a speck low in the left margin below the last text line, and two specks in the blank band at the foot. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=113 file=page_113.txt>>>
[PAGE 108]
[RUNNING HEAD] 108	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

fig. 58). The outer surface of the spiral succession of the series of bracts forms a cylinder which is a characteristic feature of the specimen and made me realize that it differed from F. edwardsi.

The peduncles of the gastrozooids measure (maximum) 8 mm, and bear half-a-dozen triangular bracts in two overlapping, enantiomorphic and imbricating rows. For illustrations of the bracts see text-figure 59. The gonodendra have been described earlier.

Forskalia formosa Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860
Plate XX, figure 5

? F. leuckarti Bedot, 1893b

A doubtful species. Without any pigment spots on nectophores.

Stem:   Up to 2 feet in length.

Nectophores:   The stem-side incision creates two unequal lobes.

Gastrozooids:   On short peduncles hardly exceeding in length that of the rest of the gastrozooid. These peduncles are much shorter than the palpons. Liver-stripes burning brick-red in colour. Cnidobands of tentilla with from two and a half to three laevotropic spiral turns, bright brick-red in colour, 0·46–0·5 mm in length.

Reported only from Messina as single specimens.

Forskalia tholoides Haeckel, 1888
A little known and doubtful species based on a beautiful idealized figure. Only three or four times recorded since Moser (1925, Taf. XXXII, fig. 1); Kawamura (1954, Pl. I, figs. 1, 3–6).

Nectophores:   Stem side not incised but forming long and tapering peduncles, twice the length of the nectosac. Nectosac little expanded in lateral direction. Lateral facets 'polygonal'.

[FIGURE]
p
p¹
♀
♂
pr
p
g
p
1mm

FIG. 60.   Forskalia leuckarti Bedot
Gonodendron of Villefranche specimen 581, × 21
g = gonodendron; p = palpon; p¹ = primary palpon; pr = secondary protrusion from base of a palpon; ♂ and ♀ = male and female gonophores.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed folio 108 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 113, offset −5 holds. Single column; no footnote, no table, no signature mark. The page opens mid-word with "fig. 58)." — completing "(see text-" from the previous page — so the reference reads "text-fig. 58" across the page turn; the hyphen is a permanent one and is left on the previous page.

PRINTED QUERY, NOT MINE: the synonymy line under Forskalia formosa begins with an italic question mark standing free before the name — "? F. leuckarti Bedot, 1893b" — verified at 6x. It is Totton's own doubt about the synonymy, printed matter, and it is not enclosed in brackets. Compare the two printed query marks after the Leuckart entry in the synonymy on p. 100. No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Layout: text and two species headings fill the upper half; text-fig. 60, one large line drawing set full measure with a short horizontal scale bar beneath its left part, fills the lower half, with a four-line caption below it in smaller type. Deep blank bands of about two lines each separate the first two paragraphs from the "Forskalia formosa" heading, and "Reported only from Messina as single specimens." from the "Forskalia tholoides" heading. Under Forskalia tholoides the first paragraph follows the heading directly with no blank line, unlike the arrangement under Forskalia formosa where the "Plate XX, figure 5" line and then the queried synonymy line intervene. About a fifteenth of the page is blank at the foot.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawing and nothing else — the illustration is deliberately not described. In reading order, top to bottom and left to right: "p" (top), "p¹", the female symbol "♀" (right), the male symbol "♂" (centre), "pr", "p" (right), "g" (left), "p" (lower right), and "1mm" set into a gap in the scale bar at the lower left. All are upright sans-serif; in "p¹" the numeral is raised and smaller; the scale legend has no space between figure and unit. Checked at 3.5x. Total lettering: "p" three times, and one each of "p¹", "pr", "g", "♂", "♀", "1mm" — 9 labels.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 60, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia leuckarti", roman "Bedot". "× 21" uses a saltire multiplication cross. The second line ends "× 21" with no full point. In the key the abbreviations are italic — "g", "p", "p¹", "pr" — the explanations roman, each equals sign spaced, entries separated by semicolons; the two sex symbols are given together, "♂ and ♀ = male and female gonophores." Unlike the caption of text-fig. 55 on p. 102, where the male symbol was left unexplained, both symbols are keyed here.

Type: species headings bold italic with roman authority; "Plate XX, figure 5" roman. The queried synonymy line is set in type smaller than the body, flush left and unindented, with the name italic and the authority roman. Italic side-headings each followed by a wide two-space gap: "Stem:", "Nectophores:" (once under each species), "Gastrozooids:". Italic elsewhere: "F. edwardsi", "see", "Taf.". Single curly quotes round 'polygonal'. "Kefferstein" is again spelt with the double-f ligature, as on pp. 97, 102, 103. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 108; fig. 58; 8 mm, text-figure 59; 1860, Plate XX, figure 5; 1893b; 2 feet; 0·46–0·5 mm; 1888; 1925, Taf. XXXII, fig. 1, 1954, Pl. I, figs. 1, 3–6; FIG. 60, 581, × 21, 1mm. Decimal points are raised middle dots, the zeros old-style; the range "0·46–0·5" and "3–6" use en-dashes. Note "Pl. I" is the roman numeral one, not the letter I of a word, and Kawamura's figures are "1, 3–6" with 2 absent. The cross-reference here is spelt "text-figure 59", where p. 104 used "text-fig. 59" for the same figure.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: a speck high in the left margin above the folio, a speck in the left margin level with the "Forskalia tholoides" heading, a speck in the right margin level with "brick-red" in the Gastrozooids paragraph, a speck in the drawing area right of the lower "p", a speck below the caption near the centre, and a small dot low on the page below the caption. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=114 file=page_114.txt>>>
[PAGE 109]
[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 9 FORSKALIIDAE	109

[FIGURE]
F.con.	Pr.lat.	C.br.	Pr.lat.
F.d.	Pr.lat.	1 m.m.	F.d.
Pr.dist.	0

FIG. 61.   Forskalia cuneata Chun
Bracts of 'Discovery' specimen, St. 1585, 1,400–700 m, × 15 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 31)
C.br = bracteal canal; F.con = convex facet; F.d = dorsal facet; Pr.lat = lateral process.
[/FIGURE]

Bracts:   Said to be only four on each peduncle of gastrozooid. This is most doubtful. Described as three-sided prismatic, more or less asymmetrical, with a concave, smooth, lower or distal facet and a convex dentate upper or proximal one. The latter bears usually a strong dentate longitudinal crest, and the two lateral edges are also armed with a few teeth.

Gastrozooids:   10–15 mm long.

Forskalia cuneata Chun, 1888
Text-figure 61
Only once have specimens been recorded under this name. The two characteristics mentioned in Chun's original description (without figures) were (1) the presence in the sub-umbrella of the nectophore of from four to six red bands on each side; (2) the truncated outer ends of the bracts and the right-angled bend in the bracteal canal, (3) the particularly large gastrozooids. The largest specimen was only 7 cm in length.

Chun described the larval tentilla as acorn-shaped, deep red in colour and with numerous short sensory hairs. The only previous description of the larval tentilla of Forskalia spp. was that of Claus (1863, p. 557, Pl. XLVIII, figs. 30–35 as physophorid larvae, unnamed). I have seen larvae obviously belonging to some species of Forskalia (? edwardsi) judging by the colour and the fact that they were not those of any other known physophorids present at Villefranche. I recognize in Claus's figures similar larvae of Forskalia spp.

I have never seen nectophores of the type described by Chun. We look forward to another record of this sort from the Canaries region.

The bracts shown in text-figure 61 might possibly be those of such a species as Chun's F. cuneata.

SPECIES INQUIRENDA

Forskalia misakiensis Kawamura, 1954

Forskalia misakiensis Kawamura, 1954, p. 106, Pl. 1, figs. 2, 7-11

Described from a single preserved specimen from Misaki. The figure of a nectophore (Pl. 1, fig. 7) shows a quadrangular contour in upper view. If confirmation of the existence of a species with nectophores of this type in all stages of growth is forthcoming any doubt will be resolved.

[NOTE: printed folio 109 at the outer (right) edge of the running head; PDF index 114, offset −5 holds. Single column; no footnote, no table, no signature mark. The body text opens mid-treatment with the side-heading "Bracts:", continuing the Forskalia tholoides account begun on the previous page. About a fifteenth of the page is blank at the foot.

PRINTED QUERY, NOT MINE: "some species of Forskalia (? edwardsi) judging by the colour" — the question mark inside the round parentheses is Totton's own, printed, and is not a transcriber mark. No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round, including the enumerators "(1)", "(2)", "(3)" and "(without figures)".

Layout: text-fig. 61 fills the upper third, three line drawings of bracts side by side, set full measure, with a short vertical scale bar standing between the second and third, and a three-line caption below in smaller type. Body text fills the rest. Deep blank bands of about two lines separate "Gastrozooids: 10–15 mm long." from the "Forskalia cuneata" heading, and the "The bracts shown in text-figure 61" paragraph from the "SPECIES INQUIRENDA" heading. Under both "Text-figure 61" and the "SPECIES INQUIRENDA" block the following matter runs on without a blank line.

The items inside [FIGURE] before the caption are exactly the labels printed within the drawings and nothing else — the illustrations are deliberately not described. They are listed in three tab-separated rows because that is how they fall on the page, each row read left to right: top row "F.con.", "Pr.lat.", "C.br.", "Pr.lat."; middle row "F.d.", "Pr.lat.", "1 m.m.", "F.d."; bottom row "Pr.dist.", "0". Each is joined to its structure by a fine dashed or solid leader. Unlike the sans-serif labels of text-figs. 52-60, these are sloping (italic) sans-serif hand-lettering with a terminal full point on every abbreviation, reproduced from Totton 1954 — verified at 7x. Total lettering: "Pr.lat." three times, "F.d." twice, and one each of "F.con.", "C.br.", "Pr.dist.", "1 m.m.", "0" — 10 labels.

Two points about the scale bar and key. (1) The scale bar is graduated and carries "1 m.m." beside its upper end and, beside its lower end, a small circle which is the zero of the rule; I transcribe it "0", though at 6x the glyph is a plain small round o of the same hand and a reader could argue for a letter o. (2) The abbreviation "Pr.dist." used in the left-hand drawing is not explained in the caption key at all, which lists only C.br, F.con, F.d and Pr.lat; and in the key the four abbreviations are printed without the terminal full point that each carries in the drawings. Both are transcribed as printed.

Caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 61, full point, wide gap, italic "Forskalia cuneata", roman "Chun". Single curly quotes round 'Discovery', the ship name roman inside them. "St. 1585, 1,400–700 m" — a station number of four figures, then a depth range written large-to-small with a comma as thousands separator in "1,400" and none in "700", joined by an en-dash. "× 15" uses a saltire multiplication cross. The second line ends "fig. 31)" with no full point after the bracket. In the key the abbreviations are italic and the explanations roman.

Type in the body: italic side-headings "Bracts:", "Gastrozooids:", each followed by a wide two-space gap. Species headings bold italic with roman authority; "Text-figure 61" roman with a capital T, unlike the lower-case "text-figure 61" in the last paragraph. "SPECIES INQUIRENDA" is a centred heading in bold italic capitals. The synonymy line under Forskalia misakiensis is in type smaller than the body, flush left and unindented, name italic. Italic elsewhere: "Forskalia" (three times), "edwardsi", "F. cuneata". "Claus's" and "Chun's" take 's.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 109; FIG. 61, St. 1585, 1,400–700 m, × 15, 1954, fig. 31; 10–15 mm; 1888, Text-figure 61, (1), (2), (3), 7 cm; 1863, p. 557, Pl. XLVIII, figs. 30–35; text-figure 61; 1954; 1954, p. 106, Pl. 1, figs. 2, 7-11; Pl. 1, fig. 7. Both citations of Kawamura's plate on this page read "Pl. 1" in arabic figures — the numeral matches the 1 of "1954" at 8x-9x — whereas the same plate was cited "Pl. I" in roman on p. 108. The figure range "7-11" in the small-type synonymy line is set with a short hyphen, not the en-dash used in "30–35" and "10–15". Claus's plate is capital roman "Pl. XLVIII" here, as against lower-case "Pl. xlvii" in the synonymies on pp. 100, 102 — a different plate number as well.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: specks high in the page above the drawings, one near the centre and one at the right, a speck in the left margin level with the "Forskalia cuneata" heading, a speck in the far left margin level with the third body paragraph, a speck in the right margin level with "Claus's figures", a speck in the left margin level with "SPECIES INQUIRENDA", and a small dot low on the page below the last line. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=115 file=page_115.txt>>>
[PAGE 110]
[RUNNING HEAD] 110	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

The bracts figured in Kawamura's plate 1, figures 8, 9 are not of the same generic pattern as those of known species. All peduncular bracts, as these appear to be, are roughly triangular in cross section. These ones only resemble Kawamura's figures of bracts of F. tholoides. But they again are not of the generic pattern, which was clearly shown by Haeckel.

A fuller and more detailed description is needed.

Sub-order III:   Calycophorae Leuckart, 1854

The Calycophorae have nectophores, and bracts – except in the Hippopodiidae – but no apical gas-filled float. It is now thought that they may have been evolved from forms which possessed a float (see Garstang, 1946). The stem-groups of the polygastric phase break away successively to form free-swimming eudoxids (the second phase), each consisting of one gastrozooid, a succession of gonophores (the third phase, see pp. 25 – 28) – one of which may be asexual and specialized for propulsion – but no palpons, except in Stephanophyes, where vestigeal ones are found.

Six families are recognized by me: Prayidae, Hippopodiidae, Diphyidae, Clausophyidae, Sphaeronectidae and Abylidae.

Family 10: PRAYIDAE Kölliker, 1853

Amphicaryoninae Chun, 1888a
Prayinae Chun, 1897b
Nectopyramidinae Bigelow, 1911b

Prayids are large slow-moving calycophores with a relatively great amount of mesogloea for the floatation of a large and heavy stem. When the mesogloea is massive the typically small somatocyst, in the form of a fine canal, may branch complexly.

The unusually large, ovoid, larval nectophore of the typical sub-family Prayinae is soon shed and is replaced by a short succession of larger heteromorph ones, usually a pair lying almost opposite one another, but in Stephanophyes several form a ring.

They are not noticeably staggered or superimposed one in front of the other as they are in the Diphyidae. The nectophores often support long stems of large eudoxids, whose bracts contain a canal-system which branches in a characteristic way (text-fig. 74). The eudoxids have large active gonophores or asexual nectophores, by the pulsation of which the stem can be rapidly extended and the tentacles spread like a drift net. It is hard to give a definition* that will apply to and differentiate such a varied group of species. It includes at one extreme neotenous, single-nectophored species like Nectopyramis diomediae and at the other Stephanophyes superba, with its ring of nectophores and in addition palpons. That prayids do form a natural group is now, however, agreed by systematists.

There are three sub-families: Amphicaryoninae, Prayinae and Nectopyramidinae. Moser (1925) distributed the members of these three sub-families amongst three of her four families of Calycophorae, thus making nonsense of her classification.

The nomenclature of the family is remarkably confused. Nine genera and fourteen species of prayids may be recognized provisionally. Only six species are at all common, namely Amphicaryon

[FOOTNOTE] * Chun's diagnosis (1897b) was as follows: nectophores rounded, opposed and nearly alike. He added that they seldom lacked reserve nectophores, which might either replace the first two or remain near them. This is no longer sufficient to include the Nectopyramidinae.

[NOTE: printed folio 110 at the outer (left) edge of the running head; PDF index 115, offset −5 holds. Single column; no figures or tables on this page, and no signature mark. The page opens with a new paragraph continuing the Forskalia misakiensis account from the previous page and breaks off mid-sentence at "namely Amphicaryon". A major division of the work begins here: [NOTE: new section begins here: "Sub-order III: Calycophorae Leuckart, 1854"], and within it "Family 10: PRAYIDAE Kölliker, 1853".

No printed square brackets occur on this page; every bracket here is round.

Layout: after the two opening paragraphs comes a blank band of about four lines, then the centred sub-order heading in type noticeably larger than the body — the largest type on the page — then a blank line and two paragraphs; then another blank band of about three lines, the centred family heading, the three sub-family synonymy lines flush left in smaller type, and six paragraphs of body text. The footnote stands at the foot, separated from the last text line by a blank band of about two lines, with no printed rule above it, set in type smaller than the body and indented on its first line; it runs to three lines. About a fifteenth of the page is blank below it. Its reference is the asterisk printed immediately after "definition" in the fifth paragraph, with no space.

Type: the sub-order heading reads roman "Sub-order III:" then a wide gap, then bold italic "Calycophorae", then roman "Leuckart, 1854"; the family heading reads roman "Family 10:" then bold roman capitals "PRAYIDAE" then roman "Kölliker, 1853". The three synonymy lines are flush left and unindented, the sub-family name italic and the authority roman. Italic in the body: "F. tholoides", "see" (three times, twice in the Calycophorae paragraph and once in the footnote's context — the third is "see pp."), "Stephanophyes" (twice), "Nectopyramis diomediae", "Stephanophyes superba". Family and sub-family names in running text — Hippopodiidae, Prayidae, Diphyidae, Clausophyidae, Sphaeronectidae, Abylidae, Amphicaryoninae, Prayinae, Nectopyramidinae, Calycophorae — are roman, not italic, both in the body and in the footnote. Author surnames are ordinary upper-and-lower case roman.

Punctuation as printed. (1) The parenthetic dashes in the Calycophorae paragraph are spaced en-dashes: "and bracts – except in the Hippopodiidae – but no apical"; "pp. 25 – 28) – one of which"; "propulsion – but no palpons". (2) The internal page reference is printed with spaces on both sides of the rule, "pp. 25 – 28", unlike every other numeric range on these pages, which are closed up; verified at 3.5x. (3) "vestigeal" is spelt so, not "vestigial". (4) "Kawamura's" and "Chun's" take 's. (5) "gas-filled" is broken across a line at its own hyphen and is joined here without duplication.

Numerals verified digit by digit: 110; plate 1, figures 8, 9; III, 1854; 1946, pp. 25 – 28; 10, 1853; 1888a; 1897b; 1911b; text-fig. 74; 1925; 1897b in the footnote. "plate 1" is arabic, matching "Pl. 1" on p. 109. The sub-order number is the roman numeral III.

Stray marks, all scanning blemishes: specks high in the page above the running head, one left of centre and one at the right, a speck in the right margin level with the sub-order heading, a speck in the right margin level with "Amphicaryoninae Chun, 1888a", a speck in the far right margin level with "Nectopyramis diomediae", a speck in the left margin level with the last body paragraph, and a small dot in the blank band below the footnote. None is printed matter.]

<<<PAGE pdf=116 file=page_116.txt>>>
[PAGE 111]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE

acaule, Praya dubia, Rosacea plicata, Rosacea cymbiformis, Nectopyramis thetis and Nectopyramis diomedeae. The arrangement of species within the three sub-families is as follows:

[TABLE]
	Page
1.	Sub-family i: Amphicaryoninae Chun, 1888	111
	Genus Amphicaryon Chun, 1888	111
	A. acaule Chun, 1888	112
	A. peltifera (Haeckel, 1888)	112
	A. ernesti Totton, 1954	113
	Genus Maresearsia Totton, 1954	113
	M. praeclara Totton, 1954	113

2.	Sub-family ii: Prayinae Haeckel, 1888	114
	i.	Genus Rosacea Quoy & Gaimard, 1827 (sensu Bigelow, 1911); Bigelow & Sears, 1937	115
		R. plicata Quoy & Gaimard, 1827 (sensu Bigelow, 1911); Bigelow & Sears, 1937	116
		R. cymbiformis (Chiaje, 1822)	118
	ii.	Genus Praya Blainville, 1834	121
		P. dubia (Quoy & Gaimard, 1833)	122
		P. reticulata (Bigelow, 1911)	123
		Genus Prayoides Leloup, 1934	124
		P. intermedia Leloup, 1934	125
	iii.	Genus Stephanophyes Chun, 1888	129
		S. superba Chun, 1888	129
	iv.	Genus Lilyopsis Chun, 1885	126
		L. rosea Chun, 1885	126
		L. gracilis (Fewkes, 1883)	127
	v.	Genus Desmophyes Haeckel, 1888	127
		D. annectens Haeckel, 1888	128

3.	Sub-family iii: Nectopyramidinae Bigelow, 1911	130
	Genus Nectopyramis Bigelow, 1911	130
	N. thetis Bigelow, 1911	135
	N. natans (Bigelow, 1911)	135
	N. diomedeae Bigelow, 1911	131
	N. spinosa Sears, 1952	137
[/TABLE]

Sub-family i: AMPHICARYONINAE Chun, 1888

A characteristic feature of the eudoxid stage, in those species in which it is known, is the reduction of the bracteal canal-system to a pair of lateral hydroecial canals, the dorsal and ventral branches being absent. This reduction may be correlated with the reduction in mass of the bracts.

The larval nectophore appears to be retained, and the first heteromorph one is reduced or vestigeal.

Genus: AMPHICARYON Chun, 1888

Type species: A. acaule Chun, 1888.

The name Mitrophyes Haeckel (May, 1888a) has a few months priority over Amphicaryon Chun (November, 1888), but Amphicaryon should be entered on the list of nomina conservanda.

Bigelow (1911b) defined the genus as 'Prayidae with two nectophores of very unequal size, the older one degenerating', but I believe that it is the younger of the two which is vestigeal. Bigelow said that as far as he knew Amphicaryon had not been recorded between 1888 and 1911, the date of publication of his 'Albatross' report. He included Mitrophyes peltifera as a doubtful synonym A. acaule.

There are three known species.

[NOTE: the contents list on this page is set with leader dots between each entry and its page number; the leaders are omitted here and columns separated by tabs. The "Page" heading above the number column is printed in italic. The indentation levels of the original list (sub-family / genus / species) are approximated by tabs.]

<<<PAGE pdf=117 file=page_117.txt>>>
[PAGE 112]

112	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Amphicaryon peltifera (Haeckel, 1888)

Text-figure 62

Mitrophyes peltifera Haeckel, 1888b, p. 131; Moser, 1924a, fig. 27; (1925, p. 401, Pl. 24, fig. 7)
Amphicaryon peltifera Bigelow, 1911b, p. 195

Polygastric phase

(Text-fig. 62.) In the past few decades I have come across specimens from time to time that correspond closely in the morphology of their nectophores with the figures given by Haeckel (1888b, Pl. 28, figs. 1–3). The radial canals of the reduced (vestigial) nectophore afford the characteristic field-marks of the species of Amphicaryon. In A. peltifera reduction has gone farthest and no nectosac remains, but only three reduced radial canals (see Moser, 1924a, fig. 27).

I saw this species alive in 1955, off Arrecife, Lanzarote, Canaries, when I made the rough sketch here reproduced (text-fig. 62). This is one of the species of which good figures are needed.

The only three recently published records that I know are in my 'Discovery' Report (1954).

Eudoxid phase—unknown

Amphicaryon acaule Chun, 1888

Plate XXI, figure 6

This species may now be described as common. Both the polygastric and eudoxid phases were beautifully figured by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 4). The nectosac of the vestigeal nectophore does not open to the exterior. Its four radial canals are distinct (Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 4, fig. 4), and simple, like those of the larger nectophore. The vestigial nectophore is embraced by the larger one.

[FIGURE]
N.l
N2
L.m
C

FIG. 62. Amphicaryon peltifera (Haeckel) Whole living specimen drawn from life by Totton at Lanzarote, 1955, to show the attachment (L.m) of the second nectophore, and its vestigial radial canal system (C), × 2. N.l = persistent larval nectophore; N2 = second nectophore.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the four labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the drawing itself, in the order they appear reading down the right-hand side: "N.l", "N2" (the 2 printed as a superscript), "L.m", "C". No other text is printed on the illustration. In the caption "N2" is likewise printed with a superscript 2.]

<<<PAGE pdf=118 file=page_118.txt>>>
[PAGE 113]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	113

[FIGURE]
A
C.pa2
C.pa1
Gz
Ns.obs
C.rad.lat
C.rad.d.
Gz
C.rad.lat
C.rad.v
1.m.m.

B
N.larv
C.pa1
N.vest.
C.pa.2
C.rad.d.
Ns.obs
Gz
0
1.m.m.

FIG. 63. Amphicaryon ernesti Totton
Polygastric phase. Two views of the holotype specimen from 'Discovery' St. 2648, × 16
C.pa1, C.pa2 = pallial canals; C.rad.d, C.rad.lat, C.rad.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral canals; Gz = gastrozooid; Ns.obs = obsolescent nectosac; N.larv = larval nectophore; N.vest = vestigial nectophore (from Totton, 1954, fig. 44).
[/FIGURE]

Amphicaryon ernesti Totton, 1954

Polygastric phase

The vestigial nectophore is not embraced by the larger one (text-fig. 63) whose lateral radial canals are branched in the proximal region. The former entrance to the vestigial nectosac lies at some distance from the surface, but is connected by a fine strand of tissue. Its ventral radial canal becomes a network covering the ventral wall of the nectosac, and its lateral radial canals have disappeared, leaving only the dorsal radial canal.

The known distribution was given by me in 1954.

Eudoxid phase—unknown.

Genus: MARESEARSIA Totton, 1954

Monotypic genus for M. praeclara Totton, 1954.

A new genus was erected for the large amphicaryonine described below because it seemed to differ more from all three known species of Amphicaryon than they did from one another. The genus was named after Dr. Mary Sears who has, with Dr. Bigelow, done so much work on siphonophores. The name Searsia was preoccupied and Dr. Sears graciously agreed to the present name. This dedication was unfortunately omitted in 1954.

Maresearsia praeclara Totton, 1954

Plate XXI, figures 2–5

Polygastric phase

The smaller nectophore is still functional, though its nectosac is smaller than that of the larger nectophore (text-fig. 64). There is some branching of the radial canals of both nectophores. The

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are hand-lettered on the two drawings (A left, B right) and are listed in reading order for each drawing; the "1" and "2" in the C.pa labels are printed as superscripts, both on the drawings and in the caption. The bar scales carry "1.m.m." (drawing B also has a "0" at the left end of its bar). No other text is printed on the illustrations.]

[NOTE: a stray vertical ink stroke, apparently a pen mark on the original, crosses the caption between the "e" and the "rnesti" of "ernesti" and continues down into "specimen" on the following line. The printed reading is "ernesti".]

<<<PAGE pdf=119 file=page_119.txt>>>
[PAGE 114]

114	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

pallial canal and somatocyst are much expanded, and the smaller nectophore is well sunken into the larger.

Eudoxid phase (shown on Pl. XXI, figs. 2–5)

So far the species has been recorded from the Atlantic, and from one 'Discovery' II Station 2636 in the Indian Ocean.

Sub-family ii: PRAYINAE Chun, 1897

In my view there are six groups of prayine species; (A) two well-known species with simple somatocysts or pallial canals and a pair of nectophores (with simple radial sub-umbral canals, the laterals meandering). In their polygastric and eudoxid phases they resemble each other more than either does other species, and so may be grouped under one generic name Rosacea (sensu Bigelow, 1911b). They are R. cymbiformis (Chiaje) and R. plicata (sensu Bigelow, 1911b); (B) two or more species

[FIGURE]
N.larv
H
Som.
C.ped
N.vest.
Som.
C.rad.lat
5.mm
0
H

FIG. 64. Maresearsia praeclara Totton
Polygastric phase. Lateral view of two nectophores, × 6.6, from Bermuda
H = hydroacium; Som = somatocyst; for other abbreviations see text-figure 63 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 46).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are hand-lettered on the drawing and are listed in reading order (top row left to right, then downwards); "5.mm" and "0" are the ends of the vertical bar scale at the lower left, and the second "H" is at the lower right. No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: the sub-family heading on this page is printed "PRAYINAE Chun, 1897", whereas the contents list on p. 111 has "Prayinae Haeckel, 1888". Both are transcribed as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=120 file=page_120.txt>>>
[PAGE 115]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	115

in which the nectophores have branched somatocysts and the nectosacs have multiform radial canals. They form a genus for which Praia Blainville, 1834 is the prior name, and their names are P. dubia Blainville and P. reticulata (Bigelow, 1911b); (C) an odd species with simple somatocyst and multiform radial canals Prayoides intermedia Leloup, 1934; (D) an isolated species Stephanophyes superba Chun, 1888. It is the only calycophore to possess palpons and a second kind of cnidobattery (cnidosac), borne on the tentacle of the half-millimetre long, thick walled palpons, which appear singly or in groups of two or three on a single pedicel between the cormidia; (E) one or perhaps more species with a marked egg-shaped terminal dilation of the simple somatocyst as well as a relatively large, median, unpaired, egg-shaped or pyriform diverticulum of the bracteal canal-system of the eudoxid. Haecekl (1888a) introduced a new name for such a species, Desmophyes annectens. The first good description and figures of such a species were those of Kölliker (1853) and of Vogt (1854) for Praya diphyes; (F) there are left for consideration the little known species of Lilyopsis Chun. Some day it will have to be decided whether any of these should be grouped with (E) under Desmophyes.

KEY TO GENERA OF PRAYINAE

[TABLE]
1.	Nectophores biserial. Reserve bells may be present	2
	Nectophores in corona. Palpons present	Stephanophyes (p. 129)
2.	Nectophores biserial, somatocyst simple	3
	somatocyst branched	Praya (p. 121)
3.	Nectophores biserial, somatocyst simple, at surface of hydroecium	4
	somatocyst simple, prolonged into mesogloea	5
4.	Nectophores biserial, somatocyst simple, at surface radial canals simple	Rosacea (p. 115)
	radial canals branched	Prayoides (p. 124)
5.	Nectophores biserial, somatocyst simple, in mesogloea eudoxids; with central organ	Desmophyes (p. 127)
	eudoxids with asexual nectophore but no central organ	Lilyopsis (p. 126)
[/TABLE]

Genus: ROSACEA sensu Bigelow, 1911

Praya Kölliker, 1853; Vogt, 1854 (non Praya Quoy & Gaimard, 1833)
Eudoxella Haeckel, 1888b (for eudoxid)
Huxleya Gravier, 1899

Type species Rosacea plicata Quoy & Gaimard sensu Bigelow, 1911b.

For the last fifty years the generic name Rosacea has been used, not in the sense in which its originators Quoy & Gaimard probably used it,* but for a better known species to which Bigelow (1911b) seems to have been the first to apply the name R. plicata Quoy & Gaimard, and to give a proper description. In order not to complicate further the very involved nomenclature of the Prayinae I propose that Rosacea shall continue in use in the sense of Bigelow, 1911b; and I designate R. plicata Quoy & Gaimard sensu Bigelow as its type species.

Generic diagnosis
Polygastric phase

Prayines with a pair of large, smooth nectophores which may be replaced by reserve bells of slightly different shape. The simple somatocyst does not lie as a free canal in the mesogloea but forms the pallial canal on the dorsal wall of the hydroecium. The lateral radial canals of the nectosac are sinuous.

Eudoxid phase

The bract of the eudoxid is convex on the proximal and concave on the distal side and contains

[FOOTNOTE] * Bigelow (1911b, p. 197) suggested that 'Lilyopsis diphyes' (sensu Praya diphyes Kölliker, 1853 and Vogt, 1854) was the same species as Rosacea plicata (Quoy & Gaimard, 1827). This is probably true, though their figure is a very poor one. The strict application of the law of priority, unless debarred by a time clause, would necessitate the new use of Rosacea for Desmophyes.

[NOTE: the key is set with leader dots between each lead and its outcome; the leaders are omitted here and the two fields separated by a tab. "KEY TO GENERA OF" is printed in small capitals, "PRAYINAE" in bold capitals.]

[NOTE: in lead 5 of the key a small raised mark — an apostrophe, a comma set too high, or an ink speck — stands between "mesogloea" and "eudoxids", with no space either side. It is not reproduced above.]

[NOTE: the genus name is printed "Praia Blainville, 1834" in the second line of the first paragraph (elsewhere in the book "Praya"), and "Haecekl (1888a)" for Haeckel in the same paragraph. Both are transcribed as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=121 file=page_121.txt>>>
[PAGE 116]

116	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

four main bracteal canals, the branches of the phyllocyst. The gonophores are well developed medusoids, and there are no asexual nectophores in the eudoxid phase.

Rosacea plicata sensu Bigelow, 1911

Text-figures 65–67

Rosacea plicata Quoy & Gaimard, 1827; sensu Bigelow, 1911b; Bigelow & Sears, 1937

Polygastric phase

(Text-fig. 65.) Three categories of nectophores are known: (1) caducous, larval, up to 12 mm in length; (2) definitive nectophore number 1, up to 21 mm in length; (3) definitive nectophore number 2, up to 32 mm in length; they differ in shape from one another. This is probably true of R. cymbiformis too, but the succession has not been described in that species.

In the larval nectophore there is a short, circumscribed, slit-like orifice to the hydroecium as in Hippopodiidae. A constant character that distinguishes the larval nectophores of the two species of

[FIGURE]
A
N.def1
Gz1
N.larv
C.ped
C.pa
H
Ns

B
N.def1
O.c
C.pa
C.ped
2.mm.
1
0
Ns
H
Gz1
Gz2
N.larv

C
C.pa
H
C.ped
Ns
0
5.mm.

FIG. 65. Rosacea plicata Q. & G. Polygastric phase
A, lateral view of a larva, 'Discovery' St. 1617, 395–155 m, × 7; B, the same to show the hydroecium in optical section; C, a second definitive nectophore from the same station, × 4.2
C.pa = pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; H = hydroecium; Gz1, Gz2 = gastrozooids; N.def1 = first definitive nectophore; N.larv = larval nectophore; Ns = nectosac (from Totton, 1954, fig. 43).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are hand-lettered on the three drawings (A upper left, B lower left, C right) and are listed in reading order within each drawing. The numerals in "N.def1", "Gz1", "Gz2" are printed as superscripts, both on the drawings and in the caption. "2.mm.", "1", "0" are the graduations of the vertical bar scale beside drawing B; "0" and "5.mm." are the ends of the horizontal bar scale below drawing C. No other text is printed on the illustrations.]

<<<PAGE pdf=122 file=page_122.txt>>>
[PAGE 117]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	117

[FIGURE]
0
5.mm
O.c
A
C.br.spur.
C.br.d.
Lob.ant.-l.r.
C.br.v
Go
Ch.l.r.
Ch.l.l.
Gz
T.

B
C.br.v
Go
C.br.spur.
O.c
Ch.l.r.
C.br.d
Ch.l.l

FIG. 66. Rosacea plicata Q. & G. Eudoxid phase
A, lateral view; B, view from above, 'Discovery' St. 1617, 395–155 m, × 4·5
C.br.d, C.br.v = dorsal and ventral bracteal canals; C.br.spur = bracteal spur canal; Ch.l.l, Ch.l.r = left and right hydroecial canals; Lob.ant.–l.r = right antero-lateral lobe; O.c = central organ; Go = gonophore; Gz = gastrozooid; T = tentacle (from Totton, 1954, fig. 41).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
O.c
C.br.d
C.br.spur.
Ch.l.r
Gz
C.br.v.
T.
0	1	2	3	4	5.mm.
Ch.l.l

FIG. 67. Rosacea plicata Q. & G.
Eudoxid from 'Discovery' St. 1617, 395–155 m, × 8.3 (abbreviations as in text-fig. 66) (from Totton, 1954, fig. 42).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — only the two text-figures and their captions.]

[NOTE: the labels inside each [FIGURE] are hand-lettered on the drawings and are listed in reading order (top to bottom, left to right); those of text-fig. 66 are given for drawing A first, then drawing B. "0"/"5.mm" and "0 1 2 3 4 5.mm." are the graduations of the bar scales. No other text is printed on the illustrations.]

[NOTE: in the caption of text-fig. 66 the decimal point of "4·5" is printed as a raised, mid-height point, reproduced here as "·". The "8.3" in the caption of text-fig. 67 uses an ordinary baseline period.]

<<<PAGE pdf=123 file=page_123.txt>>>
[PAGE 118]

118	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Rosacea from those of hippopodiids is the sharp bend of the pallial canal round the central organ in Rosacea spp (text-fig. 65A, B).

Beautifully executed figures of definitive nectophores have been made by Bigelow (1911b, 1913) and by Bigelow and Sears (1937). Definitive nectophore number 1 has a deeper shorter, circumscribed hydroecium, with a right-angled bend sometimes at the site of attachment of its muscular lamella. It is also shorter in length and larger in girth than number two. This second (later) definitive nectophore (text-figs. 65C, 66) also has a deep pocket for the attachment of the lamella, but the nectophore is comparatively larger, more closely resembling that of R. cymbiformis. The lateral radial canals of the nectosac meander as in R. cymbiformis. The corresponding canals of the larval nectophore take a sigmoid course which is much simpler.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-figs. 66, 67.) It is difficult to distinguish between the preserved eudoxids of cymbiformis and plicata except by comparison of the origin of the dorsal bracteal canal. In plicata it arises distally to the spur canal or the left hydroecial canal. The bract may reach a length of 18 mm. The tip of the right flap of the hydroecium which contains the longer (right) of the two longitudinal bracteal canals laps round the tip of the other flap (text-figs. 66, 67).

Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje, 1822)

Plate XXI, figure 1; Plate XXII, figures 1–3

Physalia cymbiformis Chiaje, 1822, 1841
Diphyes prayensis Quoy & Gaimard, 1833
Praya cymbiformis Leuckart, 1853, 1854; Huxley, 1859; Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861; Graeffe, 1884; Schneider, 1896; Chun, 1897a; Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1924a
Praya maxima Gegenbaur, 1853b, 1854; Fewkes, 1880b; Chun, 1885, 1888b
Praya (Huxleya) californica Gravier, 1899
Praya galea Haeckel, 1888a, b

Good accounts of this species were given by Leuckart (1854), Gegenbaur (1853b, pp. 301–309 – extraordinarily detailed), Haeckel (1888b), Bigelow (1911b) and Bigelow & Sears (1937). Moser (1917) gave a diagnosis and (1924a) some new figures, one of which shows a specimen with the larval nectophore still attached as well as the first and second definitive nectophores.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXII, figs. 1, 3)

Definitive nectophores (text-fig. 68C): Chun (1885) reported specimens with five reserve nectophores, and gave good figures of the buds of definitive nectophores. The first and second of these are usually found in pairs, the first one partially embracing the second in its hydroecium. They are up to 6 cm in length (No. 577, Musée, Villefranche), somewhat cylindrical or kidney-shaped, with a gutter-like hydroecial groove on the ventral side extending down beyond the ostium of the nectosac which is relatively small and faces outwards and downwards in the lower third of the nectophore.

The planes in which the two ostia of a pair of nectophores lie are nearly at right angles to one another, as shown by Gegenbaur (1853, Taf. XVII, fig. 1). The lateral canals take a meandering course (text-fig. 68) from the pedicel to the circular canal, a course well illustrated by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 2, fig. 1).

The shape of the nectophores observed frequently by me at Villefranche is better represented by Bigelow & Sears (1937, figs. 6, 7) than by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 2, fig. 1). The ostium of the nectosac is not at the ant-apical end as shown in the latter, but to the side of it. The distal end is formed by two rounded lobes as shown in figure 6 of Bigelow & Sears. I cannot confirm that the descending branch of the pallial canal extends beyond the nectosac. It terminates about the lower margin of the

[NOTE: in the last paragraph the final "d" of "rounded" is imperfectly printed and resembles "c" followed by a comma; the word is "rounded".]

<<<PAGE pdf=124 file=page_124.txt>>>
[PAGE 119]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	119

nectosac, which has only a very narrow velum like the gonophore. The velum can only be seen in relaxed living specimens.

Larval nectophore: The only description is by Moser (1924a, Pl. 1, fig. 3). She illustrated a younger stage in figure 1 of plate 1, together with earlier growth-stages of the buds of definitive nectophores 1 and 2. This larva measured 5·5 mm in length. Its lateral radial canals are straight and not meandering, and a central organ (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 43) is present as in R. plicata.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXII, fig. 2)

The bracts, which reach a maximum length of 9 mm, are convex proximally, slightly concave distally and almost hemispherical in outline dorsally. They are divided below the stem (when horizontal) on the proximal side into two lobes, with a third lobe on the concave distal side (the near side of fig. 4, Pl. 2, Bigelow, 1911b). This lobe forms the left side of the hydroecial cavity of the bract. The ectoderm of a living bract shows that it is formed of flat, polygonal cells measuring 0·25 mm in diameter, with conspicuous central nuclei. The walls appear to be lined with minute droplets. The dorsal horizontal branch of the phyllocyst runs up to but appears not to open into a conical depression of the surface. The eudoxid was beautifully figured by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 2, fig. 4).

Haeckel's description (1888b, pp. 148–9) of the bracteal canal-system of P. galea (= R. cymbiformis) is obviously superficial. There is, when mature, no connection between the lumen of the stem and

[FIGURE]
C.r.l
v
A
C.r.l
D
B
C

FIG. 68. Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje). Nectosac, × 7
A, dorsal; B, lateral views to show the course of the radial canals
C.r.l = lateral radial canal; d = dorsal side; v = velum (from Totton & Fraser, 1955); C, polygastric phase from Villefranche; camera lucida sketch from a negative of a living animal
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the three drawings and are listed in reading order: drawing A (upper left) carries "C.r.l" and, on an arrow inside the nectosac ring, "v", with "A" at its lower left; drawing B (upper right) carries "C.r.l", "D" at its right edge, and "B" at its lower left; drawing C (lower) carries only "C". The dorsal-side label is lettered as a capital "D" on drawing B although the caption gives it as lower-case "d". No other text is printed on the illustrations.]

[NOTE: "5·5 mm" and "0·25 mm" are printed with a raised, mid-height decimal point, reproduced here as "·".]

<<<PAGE pdf=125 file=page_125.txt>>>
[PAGE 120]

120	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
gz
c.h.r
c.d
c.h.l
c.sp
c.m
m
go
D
c.v
A
B
C

FIG. 69. Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje). Sketches of living stem-groups made at Villefranche 1962, × 20
A, to show a young gonophore; B, D, muscular attachment lamellae; C, upper view of bract
c.d = dorsal bracteal canal; c.h.l, c.h.r = left and right hydroecial canals; c.m = mantle canal; c.sp = spur canal; c.v = ventral canal; go = gonophore; gz = gastrozooid; m = manubrium.
[/FIGURE]

that of the bracteal canals, no 'apical vessel' or peduncular canal (from the stem to apical part of the hydroecial cavity) and no short, spindle-shaped 'phyllocyst' (unless Haeckel was referring to one of the two short, lateral spur-canals). He did not describe the muscular attachment of the bract to the stem. The 'odd dorsal canal' does not 'run along the convexity of its basal and dorsal half'. Haeckel did not show nor mention that the dorsal canal reaches the surface of the bract. It does so as a closed vesicle.

The bract of R. cymbiformis differs from the bract of R. plicata in that the dorsal branch of the bracteal canal-system arises from a point on the left longitudinal (hydroecial) canal, proximally to the short (spur) branch, whereas in R. plicata the position is distal to this small lateral spur. A large triangular sheet of muscle stretches from a point half-way along the right (proximal) spur canal to the stem, and all along the stem to the base of the gastrozooid. A small muscle stretches vertically below the right spur canal to the horizontal stem. A long muscle extends from the stem in the region of the basigaster down most of the ventral canal (text-fig. 69).

The gonophores are budded from a point on the stem close to the base of the gastrozooid and on the side of it opposite to the tentacle. There is no special, asexual nectophore. Leuckart (1853) described and figured the young buds of two secondary gonophores close to the insertion of the first one, which he took to be an asexual nectophore. Six or so eggs can be seen in the rudimentary manubrium of the first gonophore from the start of its development, almost filling the closed sub-umbrella. This undeveloped, morula-like structure persists in older stages of development too. The eggs appear to develop more fully (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 2, fig. 4) only shortly before the gonophore becomes detached. This has made observers uncertain whether the first medusoid was a gonophore or an asexual nectophore.

Male and female eudoxids are said to be found on the same stem. It seems likely therefore that the second gonophore bud may be male. There are two opposite longitudinal ridges on the exumbrella of the gonophore.

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the four drawings (A, B, C, D, left to right) and are listed in reading order across the whole figure, top to bottom. No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: in "(see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 2, fig. 4)" a solid ink blot fills the space between "Pl." and "2", so that the two read as though joined.]

[NOTE: a stray pen or ink stroke descends from the final "e" of "the" at the end of the third line of the paragraph beginning "that of the bracteal canals".]

<<<PAGE pdf=126 file=page_126.txt>>>
[PAGE 121]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	121

The gonophores pulsate actively, so that from time to time the stem relaxes and the eudoxids separate from one another as all the gonophores actively spread the stem into loops. This process extends the potential fishing-field of the tentacles, and is a beautiful phenomenon to observe. I have observed that the stem contracts again before the nectophores begin to pulsate. Gegenbaur said that the gonophores, after detachment, swam about for several days. He counted forty-six eudoxids on a three-foot long stem. There may be upwards of sixty tentilla from 4–5 mm apart when the tentacle is extended, in which condition it may be 27 cm long. The terminal filament can extend to 13 mm; it has a small disc-shaped terminal sinker edged with nematocysts. Thus a single animal may fish more than 35 m of armed line. I introduced some 4–5 mm long fish-larvae into a tank containing a specimen of R. cymbiformis. The fish generally avoided the 'net' but sometimes a filament attached itself to a tail. The fish usually broke away with a piece of filament attached and did not succumb. But one larva was observed being ingested head first by a gastrozooid, while the gastrozooid next but one was ingesting the tail of the same larva.

Attached bracts and detached gonophores and tentilla of R. cymbiformis provide good experimental material of siphonophores. When the inside margin of the ostium (velum) of the gonophore is touched with a needle, there follows a single contraction of the nectosac. When the needle is passed inside the umbrella cavity, without touching the ostium, until it touches the proximal surface of the nectosac a general tetanus occurs, together with a shortening and contraction of the whole gonophore. This tetanus can be terminated by another touch of the margin of the ostium. At this time there appears to be a tendency for the ectoderm to become sticky and to adhere to the bottom of the container. If the gonophore is placed between two electrodes (alternating current), a single pulse causes a similar spasm. It is probably the action of formalin on the nectosac that causes the contracted condition in which so much preserved material of nectophores and gonophores arrives in plankton samples.

I experimented with tactile and pressure stimuli on different areas of attached bracts of eudoxids. The region round the termination of the dorsal branch of the phyllocyst was unresponsive, but slight pressure over the terminal dilation of the median, longitudinal branch was followed by contraction of the muscular lamellae.

Genus: PRAYA Quoy & Gaimard in Blainville, 1834

Praya Auct pro parte
Praia Blainville, 1830, 1834
Nectodroma Bigelow, 1911b

Type species: Praya dubia (Quoy & Gaimard, 1833).

Blainville (1830) adapted Quoy & Gaimard's manuscript name Praya, taken from that of a beach in the Cape Verde Islands where these naturalists found the first prayid siphonophore. Subsequent authors have returned to the use of Quoy & Gaimard's original spelling in spite of the fact that Praia has priority of publication. According to the current code of nomenclature Praya must now be used. Blainville based his description on Quoy & Gaimard's actual specimen shown in their plate 5, figures 34–36, of which they say (pp. 105, 106), 'Nous avions fait de ce corps . . . notre genre Praya mentionné par M. de Blainville dans son Traité des Zoophytes . . . '

Generic Diagnosis:

Polygastric phase

Species with a pair of large, opposed, rounded nectophores (reserve buds may be present) with multi-form (branched) radial, subumbral canals, a branched somatocyst and flattened, semi-circular bracts.

9

[NOTE: the "9" on the last line is a printer's signature mark at the foot of the page, not a folio.]

<<<PAGE pdf=127 file=page_127.txt>>>
[PAGE 122]

122	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Eudoxid phase

The bracteal canal system has the typical four main branches but no median 'central organ' such as is found in Desmophyes.

There are two well-known species, dubia Quoy & Gaimard and reticulata (Bigelow). Their bracts have not been differentiated for certain owing to the fact that at stations such as 'Discovery' St. 2635 in 10° 19′S, 09° 36·4′E, where well preserved bracts have been found, nectophores of both species have been found also. It appears likely that in P. reticulata the tip of the right hydroecial (lateral) canal is recurved, and that the dorsal canal is longer and more recurved than in P. dubia. The bracts may measure up to 20 mm × 10 mm, and 4 mm. The Praya type of tentillum was beautifully figured by Bigelow (1931, fig. 189), but the specific identification for this figure may be in doubt. The measurement of the large lateral nematocysts in this figure correspond well with those of similar ones from 'Discovery' St. 2635, namely 220μ long, 15μ diameter.

Praya dubia (Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834)

Plate XXIII, figures 6, 7

Diphyes dubia Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834, page 104, plate 5, figures 34–36
Praia dubia Blainville, 1834
Nectodroma dubia Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925
Praya dubia Bigelow, 1931

The following description is taken largely from Bigelow (1911b).

Polygastric phase

Younger nectophore: About 40 mm long, 33 mm broad, obliquely truncate above, ventral wall extending below the level of the opening of the nectosac. Hydroecial groove deep, running the entire length of the nectophore, partially closed over above by a small gelatinous flap, and entirely enclosed below by two lateral flaps.

The somatocyst is extended by a system of branching canals. Below the point of origin of the pedicular canal it runs as a single unbranched tube along the dorsal wall of the hydroecium to a point slightly below the opening (ostium) of the nectosac. The ascending trunk, which may bear several short transverse branches, divides into three near the upper end of the nectophore. The simple median branch runs directly dorsad. The two laterals curve down with several minor, lateral branches, to terminate slightly above the apex of the nectosac. The sub-umbral (radial) canals number about twelve at the apex, branching distally to form about fifty at the margin. They are not interconnected as they are in reticulata.

Older nectophore: Up to 85 mm long, 50 mm broad. The somatocyst and radial canals are similar to those of the younger one. There may be at least three reserve nectophores.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 70.) Not hitherto recorded as such. I am inclined, however, to think that the bract figured by Bigelow (1931, fig. 185) coming from Monterey Bay, California (Bigelow & Leslie, 1930) and labelled P. reticulata really belongs to P. dubia.

The right hydroecial canal is not recurved at the tip as it is in P. reticulata, nor is the dorsal bracteal canal so long and recurved and the ventral bracteal canal C4 is not branched as in the original figure of the bract of P. reticulata.

[NOTE: the "4" of "C4" in the last paragraph is printed as a superscript.]

[NOTE: "36·4′" in the second paragraph is printed with a raised, mid-height decimal point, reproduced here as "·"; the minute marks after "19" and "36·4" are printed as prime marks.]

[NOTE: the word "not" in "They are not interconnected" carries a short hand-drawn underline (an annotation, not printed rule).]

[NOTE: a few faint stray specks and short strokes appear in the outer (left) margin beside the lower half of the page; none is legible as writing.]

<<<PAGE pdf=128 file=page_128.txt>>>
[PAGE 123]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	123

[TABLE]
TABLE V
Terminology of bracteal canals (see text-fig. 74, p. 132)
Chun (1891)	Bigelow (1911a)	Bigelow (1911b)	Totton (1954)	Present Usage
C.br.1, 4	...	...	Lateral	Lateral
				Spur	Spur	c1
C.br.2	C.4	C.br.3
			C.B (Bassia)	C.4; ventral	Ventral	c4
C.br.3	C.3	C.br.1;	C.3; dorsal	Dorsal	c3
			apical trunk
C.br.5, 6	C.1; C.2	C.br.2;	Longitudinal;	Hydroecial ch
			hydroecial	hydroecial
[/TABLE]

There are two surface grooves present on the bract: (1) a shallow transverse groove on the narrow dorsal margin. The dorsal bracteal canal comes to the surface in this groove; (2) a deeper lateral (right) and vertical groove near the free end of the hydroecium. In life this larger groove probably makes a passage for a tentacle.

Distribution: First taken – and studied alive – by Quoy & Gaimard near Adelaide, South Australia. Not recorded again until 1911, when Bigelow described a catch by 'Albatross' in the East Tropical Pacific. Moser (1925) described a specimen taken off Valparaiso in 1885, and lastly in 1931 Bigelow again recorded specimens taken in the East Tropical Pacific by 'Arcturus'. To these records must now be added catches by 'Discovery' and 'Discovery II' in the Atlantic and Pacific as follows:

[TABLE]
TABLE VI
Praya dubia (Quoy & Gaimard)
Date	Station	Net	Depth in m.	No. of nectophores
28 x 1925	13° 25′N, 18° 22′W	N 450	0 – 900	2
17 viii 1927	286	TYF	125 (– 0)	2
28 viii 1927	297	TYF V	200 – 300 (– 0)	5
23 iv 1931	672	TYF B	200 – 0	2 (1 still attached)
11 v 1931	695	TYF B	370 – 0	2
12 v 1931	696	TYF V	250 – 0	2, and base of stem
12 v 1931	697	TYF B	460 – 0	1, and base of stem
11 iv 1931	2635*	TYF B	280 – 0	2, and bracts
17 x 1964	32° 36′N, 117° 31′W to	IKMT	330 – (180)	6, and bases of
	32° 30·6N, 117° 30·7′W			two stems, etc.
[/TABLE]

Praya reticulata (Bigelow, 1911)

Plate XXIII, figures 1–4

Nectodroma reticulata Bigelow, 1911b, 1913, 1931
? N. reticulata Bigelow & Leslie, 1930

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXIII, figs. 1, 2, 4)

Nectophores: Sub-cylindrical, transversely truncate at the upper end, obliquely truncate below, reaching 55 mm in length and 20 mm in greatest diameter. The hydroecial canal which is deep and extends the entire length of the ventral surface may be entirely covered over by lateral flaps, or the flaps may be widely separate.

At about 1 cm or less from the upper end of the pallial canal (somatocyst) there is a median branch, which may have short lateral branches, extending dorsad at right angles to the pallial canal. The ascending and descending branches of the pallial canal (somatocyst) gives off short, lateral transverse branchlets, often bifurcated at the tip. They may be fewer in number (Bigelow, 1913) than shown in Bigelow's (1911b) figures here reproduced.

The nectosac is proportionately smaller than in P. dubia. The sub-umbral canals are numerous and anastomose. At the apex of the nectosac there are about eight radial canals. They branch dicho-

[FOOTNOTE] * At this station was taken also a specimen of the only other species P. reticulata.

[NOTE: in Table V the superscript characters of the "Present Usage" column are printed as superscripts: c1, c4, c3, ch. Column boundaries in both tables are approximated with single tabs; where a cell is empty the tabs are carried through, and continuation lines of a cell are given on their own line.]

[NOTE: in the last row of Table VI the coordinates read "32° 30·6N" (no prime mark printed after the minutes) and "117° 30·7′W" (prime mark printed); the decimal points in "30·6" and "30·7" are raised, mid-height points.]

[NOTE: the "?" preceding "N. reticulata" in the synonymy is printed, and is the author's own query. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=129 file=page_129.txt>>>
[PAGE 124]

124	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
A

f.h
c3
f.v
c4
B

FIG. 70. Praya dubia (Q. & G.). Bracts of eudoxids
A, after Bigelow (1931) as P. reticulata, × 3; B, from 'Discovery' St. 2635, × 2.6
c3 = dorsal bracteal canal; c4 = ventral bracteal canal; f.h = horizontal fold; f.v = vertical fold.
[/FIGURE]

tomously at different distances from their points of origin. The resultant canals anastomose by means of short transverse canals to form an irregular reticulum.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXIII, fig. 3)

The bracts measure up to 20 mm in length, and are laterally flattened, convex above concave below. The dorsal bracteal canal is much recurved. The tip of the right hydroecial canal is longer than the other and recurved. The ventral canal C4 may bear small lateral branches.

A magnificent specimen was taken in the Bay of Biscay, some thirty miles to the north of Santander in the Isaacs Kidd mid-water-trawl at 450 m by 'Sarsia' on May 22, 1957, and kindly submitted to the author by the Director of the M.B.A. Association, Plymouth. When the specimen was received in mid-July there were still traces of lemon yellow colour in the distal halves of the gastrozooids, and at the junction of tentacle and basigaster. The liver-stripes showed traces of a reddish-brown pigment. The two large transparent colourless nectophores became separated from the stem leaving a third, younger nectophore as well as two much smaller nectophore buds still attached. Ten pieces of stem, strongly contracted, measured 82 cm in total length. I estimate that the expanded stem might have reached a length of 3 m.

Distribution (see Bigelow, 1931, p. 535): Off Peru; South of Japan; Puget Sound; Galapagos – Panama Region; Monterey Bay, California – needs confirmation of specific identification.

New Records: 'Discovery' Stations 281, 964, 1690, 2365.

[TABLE]
Station	Net	Date	Depth in m	Material
281	TYF	12 viii 1927	850 – 950 (– 0)	2 nectophores
964	N 70 B	15 ix 1932	125 (– 0)	2 nectophores
1690	N 70 B	8 iii 1936	520 – 200	2 nectophores still attached
2635	TYF B	11 iv 1939	280 – 0	2 nectophores, 1 attached with bud
[/TABLE]

Genus: PRAYOIDES Leloup 1934

Monotypic genus for Prayoides intermedia Leloup.

The name Prayoides was published for a 'groupe' of Rosacea Quoy & Gaimard. From a systematist's point of view this seems to be the equivalent of a sub-genus. It is best to raise the name to generic rank as I have done.

The distinguishing feature of this genus is that it appears to be intermediate between Rosacea,

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the two drawings; drawing A (left) carries only "A", drawing B (right) carries "f.h", "c3", "f.v", "c4" and "B", listed in reading order. The superscript numerals of "c3" and "c4" are printed as superscripts, both on the drawing and in the caption. No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: the "4" of "C4" in the Eudoxid phase paragraph is printed as a superscript.]

[NOTE: the "New Records" line gives station "2365" whereas the table below it, and the caption of text-fig. 70, give "2635". Both are transcribed as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=130 file=page_130.txt>>>
[PAGE 125]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	125

with unbranched somatocyst and simple subumbral radial canals in the polygastric phase, and Praya, with branched somatocyst and branched radial canals.

Diagnosis: Prayines with simple, unbranched somatocyst and branched subumbral, radial canals. A single species intermedia was described by Leloup (1934).

Prayoides intermedia Leloup, 1934

The only species known. The larger nectophore of the only complete specimen found measured 12 mm in length and 8 mm in breadth; the smaller 7·5 mm × 5 mm. There is a deep hydroecium in each. It was taken by 'Meteor' off Freetown, West Africa. A single nectophore was taken not far away off Cape Verde.

[FIGURE]
gz1
s
br1
♂
♀
gz2
br2
cn
n.a
t

FIG. 71. Lilyopsis rosea Chun. Eudoxid phase
A complete male and an incomplete female stem-group, taken in the plankton, at Villefranche and drawn by M. Carré, × 16
br1, br2 = the two bracts; cn = cnidosac; gz1, gz2 = the two gastrozooids; n.a = asexual nectophore; s = stem; t = tentacle-like process.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the single drawing and are listed in reading order, top to bottom. Two of them are the printed male and female symbols, reproduced here as "♂" and "♀". The numerals of "gz1", "gz2", "br1", "br2" are printed as superscripts, both on the drawing and in the caption. No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: "7·5 mm" is printed with a raised, mid-height decimal point, reproduced here as "·".]

<<<PAGE pdf=131 file=page_131.txt>>>
[PAGE 126]

126	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Genus: LILYOPSIS Chun, 1885

I designate as type species Lilyopsis rosea Chun, 1885.

Chun* included three species: (1) L. diphyes Vogt, L. diphyes Kölliker; (2) L. medusa Metschnikoff (? L. rosea Chun); and his new one (3) L. rosea Chun; L. diphyes of Vogt & Kölliker belongs to Desmophyes.

The type species was founded on two polygastric specimens with eudoxids borne on the stems.

We are very uncertain about the identity and morphology of species of this genus. No preserved specimens are known to exist, and the literature is very confused and descriptions and figures inadequate. A prolonged visit to Villefranche might enable a systematist to find specimens.

Chun did not mention the somatocyst in his L. rosea but in L. medusa it is figured as being prolonged into the mesogloea.

Lilyopsis rosea Chun, 1885

Plate XXVII, figure 1

'Praya diphyes Blainville' of Graeffe, 1860; non 'P. diphyes Blainville' of Vogt, 1852 (= Desmophyes annectens Hkl.)
? Praya medusa Metschnikoff, 1870
Lilyopsis diphyes Moser, 1917, 1924a

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXVII, fig. 1)

Up to three reserve bells may be present. Nectophores of equal size, wedge-shaped in side-view with conspicuous, large nectosacs, whose lateral radial canals are meandering. Somatocyst simple, prolonged into mesogloea of nectophore. Chun did not mention ostial tubercles or pigment spots. But Metschnikoff did.

[FIGURE]
c3
gz
A
cn
br
go.♂
n
p
p

B
gz
br
n
t
p

C
go
br
gz
n

FIG. 72. Lilyopsis rosea Chun. Eudoxid phase
A, × 8.6, after Chun (1885); B, × 22, after Moser (1917); C, × 2.8, after Graeffe (1860)
br = bract; c3 = dorsal bracteal canal; cn = cnidosac; go.♂ = male gonophore; gz = gastrozooid; n = asexual nectophore; p = pigment spot; t = vestigial tentacles.
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase

(Text-figs. 71, 72.) Six bracteal canals, but no pear-shaped 'central organ'. There is a large asexual nectophore with bright red pigment spots and tubercles on the ostial margin, whose radial canals arise in two pairs from the pedicular canal, and a bunch of small unisexual gonophores with reduced umbrellae. Male and female eudoxids occur on the same stem.

[FOOTNOTE] * Chun (1891) said later on: 'Under the name Lilyopsis I included some Diphyids previously ascribed to Praya, characterized by the lack of sharp ridges on the rounded swimming bells and bracts, and by the occurrence of special swimming bells that ripen on the stem' (p. 559).

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the three drawings (A left, B centre, C right) and are listed in reading order within each drawing. The "go.♂" label uses the printed male symbol, reproduced here as "♂", both on drawing A and in the caption. The "3" of "c3" is printed as a superscript. Drawing A carries two separate "p" labels. No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: the "?" opening the second synonymy line, and the "?" in "(? L. rosea Chun)" in the third paragraph, are printed and are the author's own queries. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=132 file=page_132.txt>>>
[PAGE 127]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	127

I am grateful to M. Claude Carré of the Station Zoologique, Villefranche, for permission to reproduce a sketch (text-fig. 71) of a complete male eudoxid and part of an attached female one, which he made a few years ago. The occasion was the first record of seeing this animal since 1917. In the spring of 1963 he showed me another living eudoxid. I was able to confirm the details of the nectophore, but the bract became detached and shrivelled before I could study the canal system.

In text-figure 72 are reproduced the figures of eudoxids by (A) Moser (1917); (B) Chun (1885); and (C) Graeffe (1860), the only figures known hitherto of the eudoxid. I have not so far succeeded in making a satisfactory interpretation of their sketches of the bracteal canal system. I am unable to indicate how it is homologous with those of other prayines shown in text-figure 74 p. 132.

Lilyopsis gracilis (Fewkes, 1883)

'Praya sp.?' Fewkes, 1880a, page 146 (expl. of Pl. III), Plate III, figure 2
Lilyopsis gracilis Fewkes 1883, page 841

A doubtful species. It would be remarkable that there should be living in the Mediterranean two species L. rosea Chun and L. gracilis Fewkes, distinguishable only by the presence of meandering lateral radial canals in the nectosac of one, rosea, and straight ones in the other gracilis. This is a matter for confirmation or refutation by future observers.

In the meantime, since Fewkes in his only descriptive note (1880a) – appearing in the explanation of his plate III, figure 2 – specifically refers to the 'direct course from junction to circular vessel of the radial tubes', I must exclude this species gracilis from the synonymy of L. rosea. When the edge of the nectosac is rolled up it is not always easy to observe the course of the lateral radial canals, and it is possible that Fewkes was mistaken.

The name gracilis appeared, rather casually, three years later (1883) in the American Naturalist in his semi-popular paper, but obviously referred to the animal that he had previously figured. His figure shows that the somatocyst is missing from one nectophore. This is not of specific importance.

In other respects the specific description is the same as for L. rosea.

Genus: DESMOPHYES Haeckel, 1888

Praya auct (Kölliker, 1853; Vogt, 1854) non Praia Blainville, 1830
Lilyopsis auct (non Lilyopsis Chun, 1885)
Desmophyes Haeckel, 1888
Rosacea Kawamura, 1915 (non Rosacea sensu Bigelow, 1911)

Monotypic genus for Desmophyes annectens Haeckel, 1888.

The eudoxids of 'Praya diphyes' Kölliker, 1853 and Vogt, 1854; of Desmophyes annectens Haeckel, 1888 and of 'Rosacea plicata' Kawamura, 1915, have similar characteristics which separate them from the eudoxids of Praya spp. (sensu Nectodroma Bigelow), of Rosacea spp. (sensu Bigelow) and of Lilyopsis spp. Chun.

Two good figures of this different type of eudoxid appear in Kawamura (1915, Pl. VII, figs. 7–8) they are accompanied by a figure – 6 – of the associated polygastric phase of the animal. The figures appear to be original drawings of specimens taken at Misaki in 1907.

The polygastric phase associated with this type of eudoxid was beautifully figured by Vogt (1854, Tab. 6, as Praya diphyes Blainville).

Definition

Polygastric phase

Nectophores biserial, somatocyst simple, lying obliquely in the mesogloea. Lateral radial

[NOTE: the "?" inside the quoted name "'Praya sp.?'" in the synonymy is printed and is part of Fewkes's own designation. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=133 file=page_133.txt>>>
[PAGE 128]

128	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

canals straight, nectosac relatively small. There is a ring of minute red pigment flecks and tubercles round the ostium.

Eudoxid phase

The eudoxid has a large asexual nectophore and a group of unisexual reduced gonophores. There is a median pear shaped vesicle – the central organ – at the junction of the four main bracteal canals. Eudoxids of both sexes on one and the same stem.

Desmophyes annectens Haeckel, 1888

Plate XXII, figures 4–6; Plate XXIV, figures 1–9

Praya diphyes Kölliker, 1853; Vogt, 1854 (non P. diphyes Lesson, 1843 = Rosacea cymbiformis (Ch.)
Lilyopsis diphyes auct. Non L. diphyes Moser, 1917 = L. rosea
Praya filiformis (Ch.) Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861
Desmophyes annectens Haeckel 1888b
Rosacea plicata: Kawamura, 1915 (non sensu Bigelow, 1911b)

The largest specimen found by Vogt had a stem one metre in length which bore one hundred eudoxids.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXII, fig. 4; Pl. XXIV, figs. 1–3)

Nectophores: Rounded, wedge-shaped in lateral view, measuring up to 30 mm in length × 15 mm, soft and very transparent, and only loosely joined together, the younger one of the pair – several reserve nectophores may be present at the same time – being clasped only by the upper region of the hydroecium of the older. The somatocyst, simple and club-ended, lies obliquely in the mesogloea. The lateral radial canals are straight and do not meander as in Rosacea. The relatively small nectosac occupies only the lower part of the nectophore, its ostium directed downwards and outwards. Round the ostium is a ring of minute red pigment flecks and tubercles.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXII, figs. 5, 6; Pl. XXIV, figs. 4, 7)

The bract is rounded on the proximal side (above) and bounded below by two lateral, hydroecial flaps. There is a relatively large asexual medusoid and a bunch of smaller gonophores at its base, all of one sex in a single cormidium, but the sexes alternate from one cormidium to the next. A very characteristic feature not found in Praya or Rosacea spp. is a median, pear-shaped vesicle, the so-called central organ (Pl. XXII, figs. 5, 6; Pl. XXIV, fig. 4) which lies at the junction of the main bracteal canals. In addition, there are the four main canals found in Praya and Rosacea spp.

Kefferstein & Ehler's use of the name filiformis has priority, but is ruled out as a nomen oblatum by recent changes in the Rules of Nomenclature. It seems best, therefore, to use the name annectens of Haeckel (1888a, b). There would have been no possible doubt about the identity of Haeckel's form if only a single pair of nectophores had been described. But we know that in prayines there may be a succession of at least seven nectophores, although it is unusual to see six large ones all attached at the same time as shown by Haeckel. Therefore, I doubt if the presence of six nectophores is a specific characteristic of Desmophyes annectens, and we may use the name for specimens with only two fully formed ones such as Kölliker, Vogt, and Kefferstein & Ehlers have described.

Moser has introduced a great deal of confusion into the nomenclature by confusing specific identities.

Vogt (1854) reported that this species was not uncommon in the neighbourhood of Nice (Villefranche) but there are no records of it there since that time. This may be due to the fact that non-specialists could easily confuse it with the better known Rosacea cymbiformis. It is very desirable that

[NOTE: the first synonymy line opens a parenthesis "(non P. diphyes Lesson, 1843 = Rosacea cymbiformis (Ch.)" which is not closed in the printed text; transcribed as printed. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=134 file=page_134.txt>>>
[PAGE 129]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	129

visiting planktonologists should keep a look out for this species at Villefranche and preserve in formalin some specimens relaxed in magnesium chloride because none are known to exist in museum collections.

Genus: STEPHANOPHYES Chun, 1888

Monotypic genus for S. superba Chun.

Definition

Polygastric phase

Prayines with four large nectophores forming a corona. Somatocyst with only one bifurcation in young stages of development, but in mature nectophores each of these branches may rebranch complexly about ten times, the tips of the branchlets being pigmented. When fully grown the nectosac's ostium lies nearly parallel with the long axis.

Eudoxid phase

The stem-groups bear in addition to the gastrozooids, nectophores, bracts and gonophores some characteristic reduced, mouthless gastrozooids or palpons growing singly or two to three on a single pedicel. They bear heteromorph tentacles. This is the only calycophore genus in which palpons are found. The lateral radial canals of the special swimming bells are meandering and not straight.

Stephanophyes superba Chun, 1888

Plate XXV, figures 1, 2; Plate XXVI, figures 1–3

Stephanophyes superba Chun, 1891
Lilyopsis diphyes (pro parte) Moser (1917, 1924a)

A very distinct species with a much branched somatocyst in the nectophores of the nectosome. It is the only known calycophore with a second kind of reduced gastrozooid, and a second, heteromorph kind of cnidobattery in the fully formed groups.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXV, figs. 1, 2; Pl. XXVI, figs. 1–3)

Nectophore: Chun (1891) gave detailed figures of the various growth stages of the complexly branched somatocyst, which has only one bifurcation in the upper part of young specimens. It was probably one of there juvenile specimens that Moser (1917) described as 'Lilyopsis diphyes', on page 734. In later stages the two lateral branches may subdivide about ten times each, not necessarily symmetrically. In the early growth stages the nectosac occupies the greater part of the nectophore, its ostium being directed obliquely outwards and downwards. In later stages the inner and upper end of the nectophore is relatively larger, and the ostium of the nectosac lies more nearly parallel with the stem. There are some small red tubercles on the ventral side of the ostium.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 73.) The stem-groups are closely set, and were stated by Chun not to separate off. Confirmation of this statement is needed. The bract has a canal system that can be related to those of species of Rosacea and Praya. There is (see Chun, 1891, Taf. III) a right and left hydroecial canal (c.rs.5, c.br.6), a right and left spur-canal (c.br.4, c.br.1), a dorsal canal (c.br.3) and a ventral canal (c.br.2). There is a large asexual swimming bell, whose lateral radial canals follow a meandering course to the ring-canal. The four radial canals do not branch together from the pedicel. There is, in addition to the special nectophore, a bunch of reduced medusoid gonophores close to the distal side of the

[NOTE: "probably one of there juvenile specimens" is printed thus, with "there" where "these" would be expected; transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: the first canal abbreviation in the last paragraph is printed "c.rs.5", not "c.br.5" as the parallel abbreviations in the same sentence would suggest; transcribed as printed. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=135 file=page_135.txt>>>
[PAGE 130]

130	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

gastrozooid, or occasionally close to the reduced gastrozooids or (?) palpons. The radial canals of the gonophores take zig-zag courses to the ring canal and give off small lateral branches. Two or three male cormidia alternate with two or three female ones. There are some small red tubercles in the region of the circular canal of the asexual nectophore.

Palpons (Pl. XXVI, figs. 1, 3): Between successive stem-groups are found the characteristic reduced, mouthless gastrozooids or (?) palpons, growing singly or two or three to a single pedicel. They are thick walled, 0·5 mm in length, and bear heteromorph tentacles.

Because Stephonophyes superba has so seldom been recorded, Chun's account and figures have hardly been checked. It is worth remembering that Schneider (1899, p. 24) criticized Chun's figures of the cnidosacs. Schneider, who seems to have mistakenly thought S. superba and Praya dubia were the same species, denied the presence of Chun's lateral giant cells, and gave a different interpretation of them, and the structure of the cnidosac. The cnidosacs in the two species S. superba and P. dubia resemble each other basically in structure, as do those of most prayids, so that Schneider's comments are still valid.

Sub-family iii: NECTOPYRAMIDINAE Bigelow, 1911

A small group of four abberant prayines, the nectophores of which instead of being smoothly rounded bear ridges, angles and serrations.

I include them in a single genus Nectopyramis Bigelow 1911a.

Genus: NECTOPYRAMIS Bigelow, 1911

Archisoma Bigelow, 1911b

Type species: Nectopyramis thetis Bigelow, 1911a.

Four very distinct, aberrant, prayine species N. thetis, N. diomedeae, N. natans and N. spinosa are included in a single genus Nectopyramis. This seems to be a better arrangement than recognition of three or four genera. Nectopyramis as originally defined had for fifty years contained a second species diomedeae, and natans was at that time made the type species of a genus Archisoma Bigelow. N. spinosa Sears, 1952, was originally described and figured rather inadequately by Moser (1925) as Hippopodius cuspidatus. But it is not closely related to species of Hippopodius.

Polygastric phase

Nectophores of species of Nectopyramis are always taken singly, suggesting that only one nectophore – the larval one – is developed, except in N. spinosa where two types of nectophore are developed. One represents the caducous larval bell, and the other is a heteromorph definitive nectophore. Instead of being smoothly rounded as in other prayines there are in this phase in species of Nectopyramis, ridges, angles and serrations, or both together.

The somatocyst differs in the four species. In natans and spinosa it is simple, as in species of Rosacea. In thetis and diomedeae it branches, complexly in diomedeae, but there is a common basic pattern of branching in these two. It does not resemble the patterns of branching in the species of Praya and Stephanophyes. In 1954 I suggested what this pattern was like, but a textual error crept into the proof which was not corrected. It concerns the 'flagging' of a figure and made nonsense of the text. On page 84 of my 'Discovery' Report of that year, line 14 contained the words: 'C.pa2, a right and left 'dorsal' canal C.pa3, C.pa.2 . . .' For C.pa2 read C.pa1, referring to the accompanying text figure 39A on page 85.

[NOTE: in the last paragraph the numerals of "C.pa2", "C.pa3", "C.pa.2", "C.pa2" and "C.pa1" are all printed as superscripts; the third of these is printed "C.pa.2", with an extra full stop before the superscript, and is transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: "Stephonophyes superba" is printed thus in the third paragraph (elsewhere "Stephanophyes"); "abberant" in the Nectopyramidinae paragraph is likewise as printed.]

[NOTE: "0·5 mm" is printed with a raised, mid-height decimal point, reproduced here as "·". The two "(?)" in the text are the author's own printed queries; no printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=136 file=page_136.txt>>>
[PAGE 131]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	131

[FIGURE]
B
6
5
4
3
1
2

A
5
6
4
1
3
2

C
6
5
1
3
4
2

D
5
4
2
3

FIG. 73. Stephanophyes superba Chun. Eudoxid phase, × 50
Growth stages of bracts of eudoxids to show the identities of the bracteal canals and the homologies with those of other prayid bracts shown in text-figure 74. The numbers are those of Chun's terminology (see table V, p. 123). A, young bract from stem-group immediately proximal to B, × 60; B, stem-group from proximal part of a young specimen, × 60; C, preserved bract, × 4; D, stem-group, slightly magnified.
[/FIGURE]

The pattern of branching of the somatocyst, common to N. thetis and N. diomedeae, and indeed to all prayids, though some branches are lost (text-fig. 74) here and there, is as follows: Near the centre or apex of the hydroecial cavity are given off right and left dorsal (or lateral) branch-canals, each of which in turn sends a branchlet called the right and left hydroecial canals (C.h.r, C.h.l) to the flank of the hydroecium. In N. thetis these hydroecial canals are simple and symmetrical, but not in N. diomedeae, where they are strangely twisted. In addition median branches are developed in N. diomedeae – Bigelow's C.pa1 and C.pa2 (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 1, fig. 1). These do not appear in the nectophore of N. thetis.

The four radial canals of the nectosac in species of Nectophyramis arise separately, but this phenomenon does occur in other prayines. There is a tendency towards reduction of the nectosac and stem, especially in N. spinosa. This is accompanied by an increase in the relative amount of mesogloea, indicating that specimens float passively.

Eudoxid phase

This is dealt with in detail in the specific descriptions (pp. 134–138).

Nectopyramis diomedeae Bigelow, 1911

Plate XXIII, figure 5; Text-figure 75

The shape of the hydroecium and its slit-like ostium in the polygastric phase of this species resembles that found not only in larval prayines and amphicaryonines but also in hippopodiids. The tentilla, too, are of peculiar structure, resembling the larval type found in Physonectae. All this suggests that the species is neotenic. However, it has developed the most complex pattern of somatocyst-branching found in any prayid.

Only sixteen polygastric specimens have ever been recorded. No two of them look quite alike probably due to various degrees of shrinkage of the mesogloea. It is estimated that they live at a depth of from 650 m to 1600 m or so.

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the four drawings (B upper left, A upper centre, C upper right, D lower centre) and are listed in reading order within each drawing. They are numerals only, apart from the drawing letters. No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: "species of Nectophyramis" is printed thus in the second paragraph of text (elsewhere "Nectopyramis"); transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: the numerals of "C.pa1" and "C.pa2" in the first paragraph of text are printed as superscripts. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=137 file=page_137.txt>>>
[PAGE 132]

132	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
A
c3
ch
c4

B
c3
ch
c4

E
c3
ch

C
c3
c4
ch

F
c3
c1
c4
ch

K
ch

D
c3
c4
ch

G
c3
c4
ch

L
ch

H
c3
ch
c4

FIG. 74. Bracts of Prayidae
Some bracts of eudoxids to show how the branches of the bracteal canals may be homologized with one another:
A, Nectopyramis thetis Bigelow (after Totton, 1954, fig. 36B), × 5.5.
B, N. diomedeae Bigelow, full grown bract (after, Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 1, fig. 5), × 3.
C, N. diomedeae Bigelow, juvenile bract (after Bigelow, 1911b, fig. A, p. 193), × 40.
D, N. spinosa Sears, × 11.
E, N. natans (Bigelow) (after Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 20, fig. 6), × 3.
F, Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje) (after Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 2, fig. 4), × 15.
G, Praya reticulata (Bigelow) (after Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 3, fig. 6), × 3.
H, P. dubia (Q. & G.), × 3.
K, Amphicaryon acaule Chun (after Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 4, fig. 5), × 50.
L, Maresearsia praeclara Totton (after Totton, 1954, fig. 48A), × 9.
c.h = hydroecial canal; c1 = spur canal; c3 = dorsal canal; c4 = ventral canal.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — only text-figure 74, made up of twelve lettered drawings, and its caption.]

[NOTE: the labels inside [FIGURE] are lettered on the drawings and are listed drawing by drawing in the drawings' own reading order down the page (A, B, E, C, F, K, D, G, L, H), the drawing's letter first and then its canal labels in reading order. The numerals of "c3", "c4", "c1" are printed as superscripts, both on the drawings and in the caption. The hydroecial canal is lettered "ch" on the drawings — with a visible space between the two letters on several of them ("c h") and closed up on others — while the caption gives it as "c.h". No other text is printed on the illustration.]

[NOTE: the drawings are not lettered "I" or "J"; the series runs A–H then K, L. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=138 file=page_138.txt>>>
[PAGE 133]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	133

[FIGURE]
A

B

FIG. 75.   Nectopyramis diomedeae Bigelow
A, Polygastric phase, × 2.9 and B, eudoxid phase, × 2
(from Totton & Fraser, 1955).
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Nectophore (text-fig. 75A):   Rhomboid-ovate in outline, somewhat lens shaped, rather flatter on the dorsal side than the ventral, thin and pointed apically, up to 4·5 cm in length. The rather small nectosac with straight radial canals lies below with its ostium opening somewhat to the dorsal side. A little above the level of the nectosac or overlapping it is the deep, pocket-shaped hydroecial cavity. It opens by a curved slit-like ostium on the right edge, which here forms a narrow facet. The ostium is flanked by two ridges ending below in angular prominences. Below the lower lip of the ostium is a small flattened basodextral facet, bounded by two ridges, each with a basal angular process. The facet comes to a point below and is triangular in section. Into its mesogloea projects the basal end of the inferior branch of the pallial canal. The outline of the hydroecial cavity in optical section is flared at the ostium. Above it the dextral edge of the nectophore forms a fin-like ridge in some specimens. This runs right round the apical end and other side to terminate in an angular baso-sinistral prominence at the side of the nectosac. On the dorsal side in particular in some nectophores an apico-basal, rounded ridge can be seen, which bifurcates round the base of the nectosac. A lack of really well preserved specimens prevents a more complete description.

The complex somatocyst-canal-system, which is not always quite so complex as in the specimens figured by Bigelow (1911b) and Totton (1954) consists principally of a curved median pallial canal that runs round the apex of the hydroecial cavity at the point where the nectophore is attached to the stem, and then descends past the pedicel and radial canals of the nectosac to enter the baso-ventral prominence. The upper branch of this pallial canal is represented by the canal labelled by Bigelow (1911b) and Totton (1954) C.pa3. This canal, after giving off a downward branch on each side of the hydroecium ascends towards the apico-ventral angle of the nectophore. A second branched canal, C.pa2, ascends from the apex of the hydroecium to the apex of the nectophore. A third, C.pa1, runs out to the left edge of the nectophore.

During its phylogeny the nectophore of this species has become twisted and asymmetrical. Just what has happened it is not at all easy to deduce. But it looks as if figure 1 of plate 1 of Bigelow (1911b), and figure 2 of plate V of Totton (1954) show the dorsal side. The ostium of the hydroecial cavity seems to have become twisted round 90% to the right, and the original course of canal C.pa3 readjusted. Assuming that this is what has happened one can now attempt to homologize the canal systems of N. thetis and N. diomedeae. Reference to figure 2 of Bigelow (1911a) shows the dorsal surface of N. thetis (polygastric phase). We see the longitudinal pallial canal extending from above

[NOTE: the numerals of "C.pa3", "C.pa2", "C.pa1" and the second "C.pa3" are all printed as superscripts.]

[NOTE: "90%" in the last paragraph is printed with a per-cent sign where a degree sign is evidently meant ("twisted round 90% to the right"); verified at 9x and transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: caption detail: "FIG." small capitals, old-style 75, full point, wide gap, italic "Nectopyramis diomedeae", roman "Bigelow". The magnifications use a saltire multiplication cross and low, on-baseline decimal points ("× 2.9"), whereas the body measurement "4·5 cm" uses a raised middle dot — both verified at 9x. The only lettering on the illustration is "A" beneath the left drawing and "B" beneath the right; there is no other text on it.]

[NOTE: the running head prints "FAMILY 10" in old-style figures, so the 1 and 0 resemble small-capital I and O. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=139 file=page_139.txt>>>
[PAGE 134]

134	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

down beyond the radial canals of the nectosac. On either side is given off a right and left 'dorsal somatic canal'. Each sends a branch to the flank of the hydroecial cavity.

In N. diomedeae I homologize Bigelow's C.pa3 with C.D.R. (right dorsal canal) in N. thetis, and his C.pa1 with C.D.L. in N. thetis. In N. diomedeae the right hand canal C.pa3 sends branches to both sides of the twisted hydroecium, and the left branch sends only small ones.

Eudoxid phase (Plate XXIII, figure 5; Text-fig. 75B.)

The large, flattened, triangular bract of the eudoxid in general somewhat resembles the polygastric nectophore and may be as much as 3·3 cm in length. Bigelow (1911b) figured both an early growth-stage and a mature one. In the former (fig. A, p. 193) is clearly typified the prayine pattern of branching of the somatocyst (text-fig. 74): a pair of hydroecial canals on the wall of the hydroecium, a ventral branch C4 on the opposite side, and dorsal branch C3. The hydroecial canals each give rise to a lateral branch. In later growth-stages all these branches rebranch in a complex way, the longitudinal ones asymmetrically. The large gonophore bears gonads in its manubrium, and is not an asexual swimming bell as in other species.

A well preserved eudoxid taken at 'Discovery' St. 3272, TYFB, 1000–0 m on 27.vi.1955 has three ridges on the side shown by Bigelow (1911b) in his plate 1, figure 6.

[FIGURE]
C3
A
Bg.
Gz
C.lat.
O.c
C.rad v.
Ns
C.rad.lat.
C.long.
C.radd.
C4
N.spec.
0	5 mm.

Ang.ap
Som.
Qc
B
C.pa
Eud.Br.
Ang.d–l.
C.d.–l.
Gz1
Gz2
C.ped
C.h.r.
C.radd.
Ns
C.h.l.
C.rad.v

FIG. 76.   Nectopyramis thetis Bigelow
A, Eudoxid in dorso-lateral view, × 6.6; B, Polygastric phase, dorso-lateral view, × 6.6
ang.d–l = dorso-lateral angle; Bg = basigaster; C3 = ascending canal; C4 = descending canal; C.br.s = semicircular bracteal canal; C.d–l = dorso-lateral canal; C.h.r = right hydroecial canal; C.lat = lateral canal; C.lat1 = branch of lateral canal; C.long = longitudinal canal; C.pa = pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; C.rad.d, C.rad.lat, C.rad.v = dorsal, lateral and ventral radial canals; Eud.br = bract of eudoxid; go = gonophore; gz1, gz2= gastrozooids; Ns = nectosac; N.spec. = special nectophore; O.C = central organ; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 37).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: text-fig. 76 occupies the lower two-thirds of the page and consists of two drawings side by side, A on the left and B on the right. Inside [FIGURE] the lettering of drawing A is listed first, in its own reading order down the drawing, then the lettering of drawing B, then the printed caption. The blank line separates the two drawings' label lists. A carries a scale bar lettered "0" at its left end and "5 mm." at its right; the two are given on one line separated by a tab.]

[NOTE: superscripts in the body text and figure: "C.pa3", "C.pa1", "C.pa3" (second paragraph), "C4" and "C3" (Eudoxid phase paragraph), the "3" of "C3" and the "4" of "C4" lettered on drawing A, "Gz1" and "Gz2" on drawing B, and "C3", "C4", "C.lat1", "gz1", "gz2" in the caption key are all printed as superscript numerals.]

[NOTE: the drawn lettering and the caption key do not agree in punctuation, and each is transcribed as printed. Verified at 8–14x: drawing A letters the ventral radial canal "C.rad v." (space, no stop before the v) and the dorsal one "C.radd." (two d's, no stop between them); drawing B letters them "C.rad.v" and "C.radd."; the caption key gives "C.rad.d, C.rad.lat, C.rad.v". Likewise the drawings letter "Ang.d–l." and "C.d.–l." where the key has "ang.d–l" and "C.d–l", and "Eud.Br." where the key has "Eud.br".]

[NOTE: the key entries "C.lat1 =" and "gz1, gz2=" fall at line ends; the second is printed closed up against the equals sign, without the spacing used elsewhere. "O.C = central organ" is printed with a capital C here although the drawing letters it "O.c". The key lists "C.br.s" and "go", neither of which is lettered on either drawing.]

[NOTE: measurements verified digit by digit: 3·3 cm (raised middle dot); fig. A, p. 193; text-fig. 74; St. 3272, TYFB, 1000–0 m, 27.vi.1955; plate 1, figure 6; Plate XXIII, figure 5; Text-fig. 75B; 1911b; × 6.6 twice (low, on-baseline decimal point in the magnifications); Totton, 1954, fig. 37. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=140 file=page_140.txt>>>
[PAGE 135]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	135

Nectopyramis thetis Bigelow, 1911
Text-figures 76, 77

Polygastric phase

Nectophore (text-fig. 76):   The face opposite to the hydroecium, which may be called the dorsal face, is triangular, as may be seen in Bigelow & Sears, (1937) figure 2. But as shown in my figure 37B (Totton, 1954) this face can be seen to curve over below the level of the lateral angles into the face surrounding the nectosac. The deep hydroecium extends for the whole length of the nectophore. The upper median branch of the somatocyst or pallial canal extends up nearly to the apical angle, and the descending branch extends beyond the nectosac. Just below the level of the 'central organ' at the deepest part of the hydroecium a pair of hydroecial canals is given off to right and left. Near the origin of each arises a right and left dorsal canal running out to the prominent dorso-lateral angles. The four radial canals of the nectosac arise separately from one another.

[FIGURE]
C4
A
C3
O.c
C.br.s.
Gz
N.spec
C.long.

B
C3
Go
C.br.s.
C.lat.
C4
O.c
Gz
C.lat.1
C.ped
C.long.
N.spec.

C3
O.c
C
C4
Gz
C.br.s.
C.lat.1
N.spec.
C.long.
2.mm.	1	0

FIG. 77.   Nectopyramis thetis Bigelow. Eudoxid phase from Scotia St. 363
A, fore-shortened view from the dorsal end; B, lateral view; C, ventral view, × 5.5 (for abbreviations see text-fig. 76)
(from Totton, 1954, fig. 36)
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 77.)   This also has two lateral, angular prominences and an apical angle. There is a very prominent 'central organ', which probably represents the remains of the piece of stem cut off when the eudoxid separated. At any rate I have ascertained that this is the origin of the central organ in Rosacea plicata. The canal system follows the usual prayine pattern, and consists of a dorsal canal C3, with a short branch to the surface, a pair of hydroecial canals, from each of which arises a lateral canal passing to the lateral angles, and on the opposite side a ventral canal C4. The four radial canals of the asexual swimming bell arise separately from the pedicular canal, which continues a little way beyond the nectosac.

Nectopyramis natans (Bigelow, 1911)
Plate XXVII, figure 4

Archisoma natans Bigelow, 1911b

Polygastric phase

Nectophore (text-fig. 78):   Only once recorded (Totton, 1954) the nectophore in general plan is not unlike those of species of Rosacea. But it is long-bow shaped, the hydroecium running the whole 2 cm of its length. It is pointed above, and truncated below. On the dorsal surface are three longitudinal ridges extending from the apex to the nectosac, which lies about a quarter of the total length above the truncate end. There is also a pair of lateral ridges extending the whole length. The simple

[NOTE: text-fig. 77 stands between the "Polygastric phase" and "Eudoxid phase" sections and consists of three drawings side by side, A, B and C from left to right. Inside [FIGURE] the lettering of each drawing is listed in its own reading order down the drawing, A first, then B, then C, the three lists separated by blank lines, and the printed caption last. Drawing C carries a vertical scale bar lettered "2.mm." at the top, "1" at the middle tick and "0" at the foot; those three are given on one line separated by tabs.]

[NOTE: superscripts: the "4" of "C4" and the "3" of "C3" wherever they are lettered on the three drawings, the "1" of "C.lat.1" on drawings B and C, and the "3" of "C3" and "4" of "C4" in the "Eudoxid phase" paragraph, are all printed as superscript numerals.]

[NOTE: the drawn lettering is inconsistent between the three drawings and is transcribed as printed: drawing A letters the special nectophore "N.spec" without a final stop, drawings B and C "N.spec."; drawing B letters the gonophore "Go". "C.br.s." and "C.lat." carry final stops on the drawings where the key of text-fig. 76 gives them without. The scale-bar legend is printed "2.mm." — figure 2, full point, "mm", full point — verified at 10x.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 1911 (heading), Text-figures 76, 77; text-fig. 76; Bigelow & Sears, (1937) figure 2 — the comma before the parenthesis is as printed; figure 37B; Totton, 1954; FIG. 77, Scotia St. 363, × 5.5, text-fig. 76, Totton, 1954, fig. 36; Text-fig. 77; 1911, Plate XXVII, figure 4; 1911b; text-fig. 78; 2 cm. The magnification "× 5.5" uses a low, on-baseline decimal point.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=141 file=page_141.txt>>>
[PAGE 136]

136	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
R.long.
Ns
C.rad.lat
C.pa
A
R.lat
H

O.c
R.long.
C.rad.d.
C.rad.lat
B
Ns
C.rad.v.
R. lat.
C.pa(som).
Gz2
T.
Gz1
0	5 mm.

FIG. 78.   Nectopyramis natans (Bigelow). Polygastric phase
A, fore-shortened view from the ostial end to show longitudinal ridges; B, dorso-lateral view, × 7
H = hydroecium; R.lat = lateral ridge; R.long = longitudinal ridge; T = tentacle; for other abbreviations see text-figure 76. (from Totton, 1954, fig. 38).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
A
C.pa
R.d
C.rad.d.
R.buc.
R.buc.
Ns.obs

B
R.d
C.pa
C.rad.d.
Ns.obs
C.rad.v.
R.buc.
H
R.buc.
0	1.mm.

C
R.d.
Gz
H
C.rad.d.
C.pa
Ns
R.buc.
C.rad.lat
R.buc.

FIG. 79.   Nectopyramis spinosa Sears. Polygastric phase
A, dorsal view; B, lateral view of the nectophore of the first type, with obsolescent nectophore, Scotia St. 363; C, lateral view of a nectophore of the second type with a functional nectosac, 'Discovery' St. 1639, × 9.5
C.pa = pallial canal; C.rad.d = dorsal radial canal; C.rad.lat = lateral radial canal; C.rad.v = ventral radial canal; Gz = gastrozooid; H = hydroecium; Ns = nectosac; R.buc = buccal ridge; R.d = dorsal ridge (from Totton, 1954, fig. 40).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — only text-figures 78 and 79 with their captions. Text-fig. 78 occupies the upper half and consists of two drawings, A above left and B, much larger, below and to the right. Text-fig. 79 occupies the lower half and consists of three drawings side by side, A, B and C from left to right. Inside each [FIGURE] the lettering of each drawing is listed in its own reading order down the drawing, then the printed caption last; blank lines separate the drawings' label lists.]

[NOTE: scale bars are lettered "0" at the left end and "5 mm." at the right on drawing B of text-fig. 78, and "0" and "1.mm." on drawing B of text-fig. 79; each pair is given on one line separated by a tab. "1.mm." is printed with a full point after the figure, as "2.mm." is on the previous page.]

[NOTE: superscripts: the "2" of "Gz2" and the "1" of "Gz1" on drawing B of text-fig. 78 are printed as superscript numerals.]

[NOTE: the drawn lettering is transcribed exactly as printed and is not internally consistent. Verified at 4–12x: text-fig. 78 letters the lateral radial canal "C.rad.lat" without a final stop on both drawings, but the dorsal and ventral ones "C.rad.d." and "C.rad.v." with stops; the somatocyst label on drawing B is "C.pa(som)." — the full point falling after the closing parenthesis; the lateral ridge is "R.lat" on drawing A and "R. lat." on drawing B, with a space after the R. In text-fig. 79 drawing A carries two separate "R.buc." labels at its foot, the right-hand one printed slightly above the left with "Ns.obs" between them, and drawings B and C likewise carry two "R.buc." labels each; drawing B letters the dorsal ridge "R.d" and drawing C "R.d.". Neither figure's caption key includes "Ns.obs".]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 78, × 7, text-figure 76, Totton, 1954, fig. 38; FIG. 79, Scotia St. 363, 'Discovery' St. 1639, × 9.5, Totton, 1954, fig. 40. The magnification "× 9.5" uses a low, on-baseline decimal point. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=142 file=page_142.txt>>>
[PAGE 137]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 10 PRAYIDAE	137

pallial canal or somatocyst extends from end to end. There is a sharp bend in its middle region round the central organ. The dorsal and ventral radial canals of the nectosac arise separately. The laterals arise opposite each other.

Eudoxid phase

The eudoxid, measuring about 54 mm in length has been described and figured by Bigelow, first in 1911b, then in 1919, and lastly in 1931. It is much elongated, triangular in section above the hydroecium which extends for little more than half its length, and is occupied by a very much elongated special swimming bell (asexual nectophore), with its nectosac in the middle of the outer, long, concave side. The pedicular canal, originates at the upper end and continues past the nectosac to the lower end. This special nectophore has a long hydroecial cavity. The radial canals of its nectosac arise as in that of the nectophore of the polygastric phase. The special nectophore measures about 31 mm in length. The bracteal canal-system is of the generalized prayine pattern. There is a long dorsal branch C3 giving off a short branchlet to the dorsal, slightly concave surface, which has two lateral, longitudinal ridges and a pair of hydroecial canals, one on each side of the hydroecium, which may unite below. But there are no spur canals and no branch C4. A bunch of small gonophores arises near the base of the gastrozooid. The eudoxids are dioecious.

Nectopyramis spinosa Sears, 1952
Plate XXVII, figure 2

Hippopodius cuspidatus Moser, 1925

Hitherto two rather different types of nectophore have been described and figured (see Totton, 1954). I find that the one with the vestigial nectosac is the caducous larval one. I have found an early growth stage of the second type inside its hydroecium. The eudoxid which I describe below was hitherto unknown.

Polygastric phase

Nectophores (text-fig. 79):   The larval one has a vestigial nectosac on one side, still supplied by two minute radial canals, which come off the pallial canal separately. The other type of nectophore has a larger, basal, functional nectosac whose radial canals come off separately from the lower branch of the pallial canal as in other species of Nectopyramis.

The nectophores of both types are characterized by the presence of a complex arrangement of spiny ridges, whose basic pattern (text-fig. 80A) I have been able to establish in one of the larval type. The hydroecial ostium is narrow, as in other larval types, and is edged by a spiny peri-hydroecial ridge. On the opposite side, just above the ostium of the vestigial nectosac is a horizontal figure-of-eight ridge. Running on either side horizontally from just below and outside the ostium of the nectosac, and bending up as they take their course towards the upper third of the perihydroecial ridge is a pair of buccal ridges. This is the basic pattern of ridges. Sometimes there are variants. The two buccals may almost meet at the ostium of the nectosac. There is often a connecting dorsal ridge joining the figure-of-eight and the peri-hydroecial ridges. Sometimes there is a semi-circular ridge between the figure-of-eight and the upper part of the perihydroecial. This arrangement was recognized in specimens from 'Discovery' Stations 4230 and 4254 both taken in the 'Young Fish Trawl' at 800 m.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 80B.)   The bract, which measures 6 mm × 4 mm and is somewhat compressed laterally, is of the most generalized type found in the Prayidae; and can be homologized with the better known diphyid type. It has a deep hydroecial cavity, which has an oblique entire margin or ostium. The upper

10

[NOTE: the "10" at the foot of the page, in folio position at the left, is a printer's signature mark, not a folio; the folio is the "137" in the head.]

[NOTE: the numerals of "C3" and "C4" in the first "Eudoxid phase" paragraph are printed as superscripts.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 54 mm; 1911b, 1919, 1931; 31 mm; Sears, 1952; Plate XXVII, figure 2; Moser, 1925; Totton, 1954; text-fig. 79; text-fig. 80A; Stations 4230 and 4254; 800 m; Text-fig. 80B; 6 mm × 4 mm. The multiplication sign in "6 mm × 4 mm" is a saltire cross.]

[NOTE: "peri-hydroecial" is printed hyphenated in two places and "perihydroecial" unhyphenated in two others, as transcribed. The italicized ridge names in the long paragraph — peri-hydroecial, figure-of-eight, buccal, dorsal, semi-circular — are italic in the original. "The pedicular canal, originates at the upper end" carries the author's own comma. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=143 file=page_143.txt>>>
[PAGE 138]

138	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
c3
B
br
c.hy.l
c4
gz
h
n
2mm

A
r8
r.p.h
r.b

FIG. 80.   Nectopyramis spinosa Sears
A, Polygastric phase; schematic ostial view of the larval type nectophore to show the pattern of ridges; B, Eudoxid phase, hitherto unknown. Reconstruction of an eudoxid found in association with specimens of the polygastric phase at 31° 00.5′ N, 116° 37.5′ W, off the Mexican coast (Tebble coll.), × 16
br = bract; c3 = apical canal; c4 = posterior canal; c.hy.l = left hydroecial canal; gz = gastrozooid; h = hydroecium; n = asexual nectophore; r.b = buccal ridge; r8 = figure-of-eight ridge; r.p.h = perihydroecial ridge.
[/FIGURE]

part is conical. The bracteal canal system is like that found in Rosacea species except that no spur canals are formed. There are two hydroecial canals running obliquely down one or either side of the dorsal wall of the hydroecial cavity. From the left-hand one of these arises the dorsal canal C3 that does not send a branchlet to the surface, and there is present the usual ventral canal C4. The gastrozooid has a dark ring of pigment near the mouth; and the tentilla are well preserved. There is an asexual swimming bell. The small gonophores have long pedicels and mostly bear half-a-dozen large eggs.

Family 11, HIPPOPODIIDAE Kölliker, 1853

Hippopodiinae Kölliker, 1853
Polyphyidae Chun, 1882; Haeckel 1888b

Diagnosis:   Calycophorae which may have a succession of up to twelve or more bells present at once, instead of the usual two. The stem is retracted up amongst the bells. In all species spines or protuberances are present at some stage, whether these are three serrations only as in V. serrata or two low protuberances as in V. glabra, but they tend to be less conspicuous in the later stages. In the ventral radial canal there is in young growth stages a large rete mirabile (dilation) which is smaller and perhaps absent in older ones. The cleft below the nectosac through which the muscular lamella

[NOTE: text-fig. 80 occupies the upper half of the page and consists of two drawings: B, the larger, at the upper right, and A, smaller, at the lower left, with B's scale bar at the lower right. Inside [FIGURE] B's lettering is listed first, in its own reading order down the drawing and ending with the scale-bar legend "2mm", then A's lettering, then the printed caption. The lettering of this figure is set in an upright sans-serif face, unlike the hand-lettered sloping labels of text-figs. 74–79.]

[NOTE: the numerals of "c3", "c4" and "r8" on the drawings and in the caption key, and of "C3" and "C4" in the body paragraph, are printed as superscripts. On the drawings the raised numeral is set with a visible space before it — "c 3", "c 4", "r 8" — which is not reproduced here.]

[NOTE: the position given in the caption is printed "31° 00.5′ N, 116° 37.5′ W", with degree signs and prime marks and low, on-baseline decimal points; the zeros of "00.5" are old-style and sit at x-height, so the group resembles "oo.5" in this face. Verified digit by digit at 4.5x, as were: FIG. 80, × 16; 1853 twice, 1882, 1888b.]

[NOTE: "HIPPOPODIIDAE" in the family heading is printed in bold capitals; "Hippopodiinae" and "Polyphyidae" in the two synonymy lines are italic. Kölliker's name carries a diaeresis. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=144 file=page_144.txt>>>
[PAGE 139]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 11 HIPPOPODIIDAE	139

of the neighbouring bell protrudes varies in shape with the age and position of the colony. The division into genera is not very sound: there is a single species of Hippopodius and four commonly called Vogtia. The stem-groups do not separate as eudoxids.

[HANDWRITTEN] on

Hippopodiids are probably closely related to prayids. The definitive, heteromorph nectophores of hippopodiids resemble the larval type, common to both these families, in that there is no downward prolongation of the pallial canal beyond its junction with the pedicular canal of the nectosac. Hippopodiids have no bracts on the stem-groups. Sufficient buoyancy must be provided by the exceptionally thick, gelatinous mesogloea of the nectophores.

Chun (1897a) gave a good account of the relations between nectosome and siphosome. Owing to the fact that the upper part (nectosome) of the stem is deflexed and turned around the lower part (siphosome) in wide spiral turns, there would be little room for bracts in the comparatively narrow cylinder so formed when the siphosome is retracted into it (see Haeckel, 1888b, Pl. 29, fig. 7).

In hippopodiids, as probably in all Calycophorae, the larval budding zones (for nectosome and siphosome) remain close together, and growth proceeds in opposite directions, outwards from this point. By contrast in physonects growth proceeds in the same direction for each zone, so that in the Physonectae the two zones become separated by the length of the nectosome, the nectosomal zone being carried upwards relative to the other growth zone.

The history of the treatment and nomenclature of the family was given by Haeckel (1888b).

Genus: HIPPOPODIUS Quoy & Gaimard, 1827

Monotypic genus for Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål, 1776).

I see no adequate reason for thinking that Hippopodius hippopus should be regarded as generically distinct from Vogtia spp., but for the sake of maintaining stability in nomenclature I refrain from using one generic name for the five species, in spite of the fact that Schneider (1898) and Moser generally did so.

Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål, 1776)
Plate XXVIII, figures 1–2; Plate XXIX, figures 1–3

Gleba hippopus Forskål, 1776
H. neapolitanus Kölliker, 1853
Polyphyes ungulata Haeckel, 1888b
H. luteus Leloup, 1933

There have been many descriptions of the general morphology of specimens of this species and of their development. The sequence of developmental stages can be followed in the following sequence of figures: Metschnikoff (1874, Pl. XI, figs. 5–8); Chun (1888b, Pl. 2, figs. 1–3); Moser (1924a, Pl. 3, fig. 2); Chun (1913, figs. 5, 6; 1897a, figs. 6b, 6c; and 1913, figs. 7, 8). The relationship between the two budding zones in the fully developed animal was best illustrated by Chun (1897a, fig. 11) and Richter (1907, Pl. 28, fig. 27).

Nectophores:   The larval nectophore is shed and its place taken by a series of secondary heteromorph ones, none of which are normally shed. The definitive nectophore (text-fig. 81, 1a–c) is horse-shoe shaped, up to about 19 mm in width, with four rounded dorsal knobs, varying in size and forming an arc above the ostium (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937, text-figs. 15–19). In life, the nectosac is not flat as has been suggested, but utilizes a considerable volume of water in forming a propulsive jet (see Totton, 1954, p. 99).

[NOTE: the [HANDWRITTEN] "on" is an ink manuscript correction in the head margin of the page, written above the printed word "of" in the first line's "with the age and position of the colony", with a diagonal ink stroke drawn through that printed "of". The printed reading is retained in the transcription above and the correction recorded separately; verified at 9x.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 1897a; Haeckel, 1888b, Pl. 29, fig. 7; Haeckel (1888b); Quoy & Gaimard, 1827; Forskål, 1776 (twice); Schneider (1898); Plate XXVIII, figures 1–2; Plate XXIX, figures 1–3; Kölliker, 1853; Haeckel, 1888b; Leloup, 1933; Metschnikoff (1874, Pl. XI, figs. 5–8); Chun (1888b, Pl. 2, figs. 1–3); Moser (1924a, Pl. 3, fig. 2); Chun (1913, figs. 5, 6; 1897a, figs. 6b, 6c; and 1913, figs. 7, 8); Chun (1897a, fig. 11); Richter (1907, Pl. 28, fig. 27); text-fig. 81, 1a–c; 19 mm; Bigelow & Sears, 1937, text-figs. 15–19; Totton, 1954, p. 99. The ranges use en dashes throughout.]

[NOTE: "HIPPOPODIUS" in the genus heading is printed in bold italic capitals, as is "Hippopodius hippopus" in the species heading. The four synonymy lines are set smaller than the body, with the taxon names italic and the authorities roman; "H." abbreviates Hippopodius in two of them. Forskål's name carries a ring over the a and Kölliker's a diaeresis. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=145 file=page_145.txt>>>
[PAGE 140]

140	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

There is a large rete of unknown function in the ventral radial canal of recently budded nectophores, which is smaller in size or invisible in older ones. In its endoderm are found very striking multilobate nuclei (see Münter, 1912). The lateral radial canals arise from the dorsal radial canal near the upper margin of the nectosac, and are not easily seen in preserved material, owing to the rolling-up of the margin of the nectosac, unless the specimen has been treated with magnesium chloride. The mesogloea is sensitive to stimulation, upon which it may become opalescent in colour, with a subsequent return to its normal transparency. This blanching is accompanied by luminescence, a phenomenon demonstrated to me by G. O. Mackie at Villefranche in 1964. Each nectophore as it grows in the hydroecium of its predecessor does a 180° turn on its long axis.

Gastrozooid and Tentacle:   The gastrozooid is borne by a short pedicel; about as long as a nectophore, with a sub-spherical basigaster. The tentacle is very long with a long terminal filament. Tentillum long with ellipsoidal cnidosac (see Haeckel, 1888b, Pl. 29, fig. 8; Bigelow, 1918, Pl. 7, figs. 6, 7). The cnidoband is curved round till its apical end lies near the base. On each side lie four large ensiform cnidocysts.

Gonophores, both male and female, arise from a point on the stem close to the pedicels of the gastrozooids. At maturity they break away and swim freely. In my own experiments, the female gonophores always swam directly downwards, indicating that the early stages of development take place in deep water. None of my many attempts to fertilize the eggs have been successful. Only Metschnikoff (1874) has achieved this. The manubria of the gonophores protrude freely from the ostia of the little medusae, which of course represent the adult phase of the animal.

Genus: VOGTIA Kölliker, 1853

For the history of the use of this generic name see Bigelow, 1918, pages 403–5. Bigelow maintains that species of this genus differ from the only species of Hippopodius in having an early growth stage of the cnidoband of the tentillum saccus in which it is coiled up. This is admittedly an almost universal phenomenon. In H. hippopus the earliest growth-stage depicted by Bigelow (1918, Pl. 7, fig. 6) is also almost universally found. But in H. hippopus the cnidoband is too short to coil up before it takes on its mature form. In my view this is a minor matter of degree and not one of generic importance.

Though Schneider and Moser both justifiably united Vogtia with Hippopodius, I am retaining Vogtia in order not to confuse further those who have to search the literature. There are four species. Bigelow & Sears (1937) defined their use of the name Vogtia. But in V. pentacantha there are sometimes spines around the base of the median dorsal prominence, so that the facets are not entirely smooth. There is a good deal of variation in the amount and kind of spinosity from specimen to specimen, and probably from the first to the last of a series of nectophores budded by any one specimen.

Vogtia spinosa Kefferstein and Ehlers, 1861
V. pentacantha Bigelow, 1918, plate 4, figure 1 (non V. pentacantha Kölliker, 1853)

A species with angular nectophores and spines on the facets as well as on the ridges. Organization is characteristic of all hippopodiids.

Definitive nectophores (text-fig. 81, 3):   Short pentagonal prisms, the largest about 20 mm broad. The gelatinous tubercles or spines occur closely crowded not only on the ridges but on the lateral and dorsal facets. The oldest nectophores may be lacking spines. In young nectophores the rete in the ventral radial canal covers most of the upper surface of the nectosac, but later on in growth it decreases in size and may form two lateral wings (see Bigelow 1911b, Pl. 15, fig. 9). The nectosac is relatively large.

[NOTE: the authority of Vogtia spinosa is printed "Kefferstein and Ehlers, 1861", with two f's and spelt out "and"; verified at 5.5x. Elsewhere in the monograph the surname is set in small capitals; here it is upper and lower case.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: Münter, 1912; 1964; 180°; Haeckel, 1888b, Pl. 29, fig. 8; Bigelow, 1918, Pl. 7, figs. 6, 7; Metschnikoff (1874); Kölliker, 1853; Bigelow, 1918, pages 403–5; Bigelow (1918, Pl. 7, fig. 6); Bigelow & Sears (1937); Kefferstein and Ehlers, 1861; Bigelow, 1918, plate 4, figure 1; Kölliker, 1853; text-fig. 81, 3; 20 mm; Bigelow 1911b, Pl. 15, fig. 9. "pages 403–5" is an en-dash range abbreviated thus.]

[NOTE: "VOGTIA" in the genus heading and "Vogtia spinosa" in the species heading are printed in bold italic; the synonymy line below the species heading is set smaller, with "non" italic. The side-headings "Gastrozooid and Tentacle:", "Gonophores", "Definitive nectophores" are italic, as are "rete" and "tentillum saccus" in the body. "Bigelow 1911b" in the last paragraph is printed without a comma before the date, unlike the other Bigelow citations on the page. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=146 file=page_146.txt>>>
[PAGE 141]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 11 HIPPOPODIIDAE	141

[FIGURE]
1a
1b
1c

2
4a
4b

3
5

FIG. 81.   Nectophores of 1. Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål), a–c, dorsal views, a, 8 mm, b, 10.5 mm, c, 19 mm.
2. Vogtia glabra Bigelow. 3. V. spinosa Kefferstein & Ehlers. 4. V. pentacantha Kölliker, a, dorsal, b, side view.
5. V. serrata (Moser)
Figures 1a, b, c, after Bigelow & Sears (1937); figure 2, × 2.7 after Bigelow (1918); figure 3, × 3.5 after Bigelow (1911b); figures 4a, b, × 6; and figure 5, × 5.7 from Totton & Fraser, 1955.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — only text-figure 81, which fills the page above its caption. It consists of eight drawings in three tiers: 1a, 1b, 1c across the top; 2, 4a, 4b across the middle; 3 at the lower left and 5, the largest, at the lower right. Inside [FIGURE] the eight drawn numbers are listed tier by tier, left to right, blank lines separating the tiers, then the printed caption. No other text appears on the illustration.]

[NOTE: the drawn figure-numbers are set in an upright sans-serif face, each numeral separated from its letter by a small space ("1 a", "1 b", "1 c", "4 a", "4 b"), which is not reproduced above. Verified at 10x.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 81; 8 mm, 10.5 mm, 19 mm; Bigelow & Sears (1937); × 2.7, Bigelow (1918); × 3.5, Bigelow (1911b); × 6; × 5.7, Totton & Fraser, 1955. The magnifications use a saltire multiplication cross and low, on-baseline decimal points, as do the three widths in the first caption line.]

[NOTE: the caption's line breaks are preserved above because the caption is a numbered list of five species entries that wrap across the printed lines. "Kefferstein & Ehlers" is printed here with an ampersand, whereas the species heading on the preceding page spells out "and". No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=147 file=page_147.txt>>>
[PAGE 142]

142	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Both ♂ and ♀ gonophores are present in each cormidium. The tentilla vary from bright yellow to brick-red in life.

Vogtia pentacantha Kölliker, 1853

This species is at once distinguishable from spinosa by the general absence of spines from the facets of the nectophores at all stages of development. Occasionally spines are found around the base of the median dorsal prominence. Otherwise the facets are entirely smooth.

Definitive Nectophores:   Kölliker's (1853, Pl. VIII) figures 2 and 6 were badly drawn. For a more accurate representation see (text-fig. 81, 4a, b). Spines are found only on the edges of facets. The frontal-lateral wings have flat upper facets. The nectosac is relatively small.

Vogtia serrata (Moser, 1925)
Plate XXVII, figure 3

V. pentacantha: Bigelow, 1913, plate 5, figures 7, 9 (non V. pentacantha Kölliker, 1853)

The large smooth, triangular nectophores of this species are easily recognized.

Definitive nectophores:   Large, smooth and triangular, with hollows under the lateral corners (text-fig. 81, 5).

Vogtia glabra Bigelow, 1918

Definitive nectophore:   There are only two rounded prominences above the ostium (text-fig. 81, 2). Young nectophores are usually somewhat pointed, and their prominences more marked.

Family 12 : DIPHYIDAE Quoy & Gaimard, 1827

Galeolariinae Chun, 1897
Muggiinae Bigelow, 1911b (pars)
Diphyinae Moser, 1925

Bigelow (1911b) made a classical review of this family. The history of the treatment of members of the family will be found therein, as well as numbers of beautifully drawn figures and descriptions. He dealt with eleven of the thirty-nine forms now known. Moser (1925) wrote about the family at considerable length – some 250 pages – and described four new species, one of which is confined to the Antarctic. She dealt with nineteen of the thirty-nine forms we know to-day. Since then there have been no comprehensive reviews.

In earlier days calycophores which had two rather similar nectophores were called 'diphyids'. To-day we group together, because of the possession of a number of characters, thirty-nine species, some of which do not bud off a posterior nectophore. They are at present arranged in seven genera.

The first genus, Sulculeolaria, is separated off to form a monotypic sub-family, Sulculeolariinae (Totton, 1954). The old name Galeolariinae had regretfully to be changed when it became evident that Sulculeolaria and Galeolaria – itself changed by Stechow to Galetta – were synonymous.

Five of the other diphyid genera are treated as members of a sub-family Diphyinae which is a synonym of the older name Diphyopsinae Haeckel.

A seventh, monotypic genus, Dimophyes, which seems to be related to the diphyids, was regarded by Moser as forming a monotypic family, Dimophyidae.

The increase in the number of species known to-day is largely accounted for by additions to the number of species of Lensia, consisting of small specimens which had been overlooked previously.

[NOTE: the two symbols in the first line are the printed astronomical/biological signs for male (♂) and female (♀), set at text size; verified at 7x.]

[NOTE: the family heading is printed "Family 12 : DIPHYIDAE Quoy & Gaimard, 1827", with a space on each side of the colon; the corresponding heading four pages earlier uses a comma ("Family 11, HIPPOPODIIDAE"). "DIPHYIDAE" is in bold capitals. Verified at 4.5x.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: Kölliker, 1853; Kölliker's (1853, Pl. VIII) figures 2 and 6; text-fig. 81, 4a, b; Moser, 1925; Plate XXVII, figure 3; Bigelow, 1913, plate 5, figures 7, 9; Kölliker, 1853; text-fig. 81, 5; Bigelow, 1918; text-fig. 81, 2; Quoy & Gaimard, 1827; Chun, 1897; Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925; Bigelow (1911b); Moser (1925); 250 pages; Totton, 1954.]

[NOTE: the three species headings and "Vogtia" in them are bold italic. The three synonymy lines under the family heading are set smaller, the taxon names italic. The parenthetical dashes in "– some 250 pages –" and "– itself changed by Stechow to Galetta –" are en rules. Counts are spelt out in words in the body: "eleven", "thirty-nine", "nineteen", "seven", "Five", "A seventh". No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=148 file=page_148.txt>>>
[PAGE 143]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	143

I have separated off half-a-dozen mid-water forms, formerly regarded as diphyids, into a new family, Clausophyidae. Bigelow (1913) had already taken the first step when he set up a new sub-family, Clausophyinae, for Clausophyes ovata and Cl. galeata.

Sub-family i : SULCULEOLARIINAE Totton, 1954

Galeolarinae Chun, 1897b
Galettinae Stechow, 1921

Monotypic sub-family for Sulculeolaria Blainville, 1830.

Eudoxids of this sub-family have never been taken in plankton hauls, but they were set free from S. quadrivalvis in the aquaria of Miss M. J. Delap of Valencia, Ireland, who made many unpublished observations and drawings of siphonophores and other marine invertebrates from 1900–1930. Failure to release the eudoxids seems to be a primitive feature, found in what are now considered to be the more primitive siphonophores.

In the polygastric phase there is often a succession of both anterior and posterior nectophores, though it is only occasionally that a specimen is found bearing more than one anterior nectophore at a time. This phenomenon also appears to be an atavistic one.

Six species of the single genus Sulculeolaria are now recognized. A few species hitherto included under the old name Galeolaria have now been generically associated with Lensia spp.

Genus: SULCULEOLARIA Blainville, 1834

Galeolaria Blainville, 1830 (preoccupied Lamarck, 1818)
Galetta Stechow, 1921; Totton, 1932; Bigelow & Sears, 1937

Type species: Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville, 1834 (figured).

I have already dealt definitively with both the zoology and nomenclature of this genus (Totton, 1954, p. 101). My 1932 review was a tentative one. As Bigelow (1918) remarked: 'Successive studies progressively clarify the situation.' On Bigelow's work we chiefly depend.

Blainville's generic description of Galeolaria referred to fairly firm gelatinous, regularly and bilaterally symmetrical, sub-polygonal or oval animals, that each have a large posterior ostium; a velum and a two-winged sub-ostial lamella; a muscular sub-umbrella occupying much space inside; and a stem, borne on the anterior-superior face, that issues from a bilabiate hydroecium.   This makes quite clear what genus of large diphyids he was dealing with.

In all the species of Sulculeolaria the lateral canals of the posterior nectophores make a loop from base to apex and back to the velar ring-canal, in contrast to the unlooped canals in species of Lensia. The surface of the anterior nectophore is always smooth and rounded rather than longitudinally ridged as in most other diphyids.

Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville, 1834
Plate XXIX, figure 4; Plate XXX, figures 1–4; Plate XXXI, figures 1–3; text-figure 82

Sulculeolaria quadridentata Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834
Epibulia aurantiaca Vogt, 1851
Diphyes quadrivalvis Gegenbaur, 1853
Galeolaria aurantiaca Vogt, 1854
Galeolaria quadrivalvis Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925

The question whether S. quadrivalvis and S. quadridentata are synonyms of one and the same species was reviewed by Bigelow & Sears (1937) and by Totton (1954). I am of the opinion that they are synonyms.

[NOTE: the sub-family heading is printed "Sub-family i : SULCULEOLARIINAE Totton, 1954", with a lower-case roman numeral "i" and a space each side of the colon; "SULCULEOLARIINAE" is in bold capitals, as is "SULCULEOLARIA" (bold italic) in the genus heading. Verified at 4.5x.]

[NOTE: the first synonymy line under the sub-family heading is printed "Galeolarinae Chun, 1897b" — one "i" only, and the date lettered b — whereas the same name is printed "Galeolariinae Chun, 1897" on the preceding page. Both are transcribed as printed. Similarly "Sulculeolaria Blainville, 1830" in the "Monotypic sub-family" line against "SULCULEOLARIA Blainville, 1834" in the genus heading; verified digit by digit.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: Bigelow (1913); Totton, 1954; Chun, 1897b; Stechow, 1921; Blainville, 1830; 1900–1930; Blainville, 1834; Blainville, 1830 (preoccupied Lamarck, 1818); Stechow, 1921; Totton, 1932; Bigelow & Sears, 1937; Blainville, 1834; Totton, 1954, p. 101; 1932; Bigelow (1918); Blainville, 1834; Plate XXIX, figure 4; Plate XXX, figures 1–4; Plate XXXI, figures 1–3; text-figure 82; Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834; Vogt, 1851; Gegenbaur, 1853; Vogt, 1854; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925; Bigelow & Sears (1937); Totton (1954).]

[NOTE: extra-wide spaces occur in the printed setting after "Monotypic sub-family" and after "bilabiate hydroecium." in the Blainville paragraph; they are reproduced above as, respectively, a single and a triple space. The synonymy lines are set smaller than the body with the taxon names italic. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=149 file=page_149.txt>>>
[PAGE 144]

144	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

My view is based on the fact that there is a great deal of variation of the denticulation round the ostium of the anterior nectophore, and that it is not a question merely of the number of teeth but the degree to which the dentate character appears, if at all.

The name quadrivalvis used to be applied (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937, p. 30) to anterior nectophores with only two dorsal ostial teeth, and quadridentata to those with two lateral as well as two dorsal teeth. After examination of hundreds of specimens from different areas I consider that these characters are not clear-cut, and that intermediate conditions are to found (see Totton, 1932, p. 342), as well as specimens in which no lateral teeth are developed.   All varieties are associated with indistinguishable posterior nectophores.

The species was well described and figured by Vogt (1851 as Epibulia aurantiaca) and by Gegenbaur (1853b). The whole living animal was first described by Vogt (1854) as Galeolaria aurantiaca.

[FIGURE]
A
0·25MM.
do.
pa.

B
·5MM
rc.
do

1MM.
C
do

FIG. 82.   Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville
A, base of the anterior nectophore, × 45; B, ostial view of the nectosac, × 45; C, lateral view of the anterior
nectophore, × 12, in the position for horizontal progression
do = dorsal teeth; pa = vertical pads on the inner sides of the two lamellae of the mouth-plate; r.c =
circular canal (from Totton, 1932, fig. 19).
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXX)

Anterior nectophore (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 5, fig. 2; 1918, figs. 195–97; and text-fig. 82):   Up to 18 mm long, not ridged, a feature common to all species of the genus. The somatocyst is long and fine reaching up to the middle of the dorsal side. Round the ostium there may be from two to four teeth of varying size. There are two baso-ventral wings (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 5, fig. 4, not numbered on the plate). There is a deep division between the two wings (or halves of the mouthplate), not just a marginal notch. On the inner margins of the basal wings is an oval shaped pad with a vertical face. The course of the radial canals of the nectosac was described by Gegenbaur (1853b). Plate XXIX, figure 4 shows the budding zone of a specimen with one bud of an anterior nectophore and two other indeterminate buds.

Posterior nectophore (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 5, figs. 1, 3):   Up to 19 mm long. The nectosac has two characteristic constrictions at right angles to one another. There are two baso-ventral wings, and two large lateral and two dorsal teeth round the ostium.

M. Claude Carré has shown me sketches which he made on October 31, 1962, of a specimen bearing a short stem without gonophores, taken at Villefranche. Within a period of six days the first pair

[HANDWRITTEN] [illegible]

[NOTE: the [HANDWRITTEN] entry is a faint pencil annotation of about five or six cursive letters written in the interlinear space of the last paragraph, above the printed word "gonophores". Examined at 24x it remains unreadable, so it is recorded as illegible rather than guessed.]

[NOTE: text-fig. 82 occupies the middle third of the page and consists of three drawings: A, the largest, filling the left half; B at the upper right; C at the lower right. Inside [FIGURE] each drawing's lettering is listed in its own reading order, A then B then C, blank lines between them, then the printed caption. Each drawing carries a vertical scale bar with its legend lettered beside the top of the bar: "0·25MM." for A, "·5MM" for B (with no final stop) and "1MM." for C. The "MM" of each is lettered in small capitals.]

[NOTE: the drawn lettering is transcribed as printed. Verified at 12–14x: the circular canal is lettered "rc." on drawing B with no stop between the two letters, whereas the caption key gives it as "r.c"; the dorsal teeth are lettered "do." on drawing A and "do" without a stop on drawings B and C; "pa." carries a stop on drawing A. The decimal point of "0·25MM." is a raised middle dot, and "·5MM" begins with a raised middle dot and no leading zero.]

[NOTE: "intermediate conditions are to found" in the second paragraph is printed thus, with "be" wanting; the author's reading is kept. Extra-wide spaces are printed after "are developed." in the same paragraph, reproduced here as three spaces, and after each italic side-heading, likewise reproduced.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: Bigelow & Sears, 1937, p. 30; Totton, 1932, p. 342; Vogt (1851); Gegenbaur (1853b); Vogt (1854); FIG. 82, × 45, × 45, × 12, Totton, 1932, fig. 19; Pl. XXX; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 5, fig. 2; 1918, figs. 195–97; text-fig. 82; 18 mm; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 5, fig. 4; Gegenbaur (1853b); Plate XXIX, figure 4; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 5, figs. 1, 3; 19 mm; October 31, 1962. The magnifications use a saltire multiplication cross. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=150 file=page_150.txt>>>
[PAGE 145]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	145

of nectophores was shed, a second and third anterior and one posterior had developed and were shed, and a fourth anterior one was budded.

Eudoxid phase

(See Vogt, 1854, pp. 114–16.) Male and female gonophores are borne on separate 'colonies', according to Vogt (p. 112). He figured the saccus of the tentillum, and examined twenty-five specimens. The gonophores, which are in fact the adults, break loose from the attached cormidia and swim freely for several days.

Colour (see Vogt, 1854, p. 115):   Male manubrium vermilion, female colourless.

Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars, 1846)
Text-figures 83–86

Galeolaria australis Bigelow, 1911b, plate 5, figure 8; Bigelow, 1918

Sars gave accurate figures; the last review was by Totton (1954) where further accurate figures are to be found. There has been much confusion between this species and forms called 'australis' by certain authors, making futile a study of much of the literature. For example, Bigelow & Sears' (1937) Galetta australis is Sulculeolaria turgida. I have re-examined the material.

[FIGURE]
A

B

FIG. 83.   Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars)
A, male and B, female stem-groups, × 10.4. From pencil sketches from life by the late
Miss M. J. Delap
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: text-fig. 83 fills the lower half of the page and consists of two drawings: A, upper left, and B, lower right. The only lettering on the illustration is the "A" set within drawing A and the "B" at the upper left of drawing B, both in an upright sans-serif face; there are no other labels.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: Vogt, 1854, pp. 114–16; Vogt (p. 112); Vogt, 1854, p. 115; Sars, 1846; Text-figures 83–86; Bigelow, 1911b, plate 5, figure 8; Bigelow, 1918; Totton (1954); Bigelow & Sears' (1937); FIG. 83, × 10.4. The page-range "pp. 114–16" is abbreviated thus with an en dash; "× 10.4" uses a saltire cross and a low, on-baseline decimal point.]

[NOTE: "Sulculeolaria biloba" in the species heading is bold italic; the single synonymy line beneath the text-figure reference is set smaller with the taxon name italic. In the body, "'australis'" is printed in italic within roman single quotation marks, and "Galetta australis" and "Sulculeolaria turgida" are italic. "Bigelow & Sears'" carries a bare apostrophe with no following s. Counts are spelt out: "a second and third", "a fourth", "twenty-five". No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=151 file=page_151.txt>>>
[PAGE 146]

146	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
FIG. 84.   Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars)
Original drawing of the whole polygastric phase, swimming, × 2.6. From a pencil sketch by the late Miss
M. J. Delap
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-figs. 84 and 85):   Up to about 26 mm long. Somatocyst short, ovoid long axis oblique (in side view). There is a pair of commissural, lateral, radial canals running from a point close to the base of the dorsal radial to join the upward half of the looped lateral radial canals at mid-length of the nectophore.

I regret to find that a mistake was made in lettering and flagging my (1954) text-figure 50A: the lower pecked flag-lines to 'C.com' refer to ventral sides of the lateral radial canal loop.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 86):   Up to 26 mm long and 6·5 mm wide. The upper end of the pallial canal, to which the posterior nectophore is attached, projects obliquely upwards into a small pocket in the base of the nectophore. This is a characteristic feature of the species (see Totton, 1954,

[NOTE: text-fig. 84 occupies the upper three-quarters of the page: a single large drawing of the whole animal. It carries no lettering at all, so the [FIGURE] block holds only the printed caption.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 84, × 2.6; text-figs. 84 and 85; 26 mm; (1954) text-figure 50A; text-fig. 86; 26 mm, 6·5 mm; Totton, 1954. "× 2.6" uses a saltire cross with a low, on-baseline decimal point, whereas the body measurement "6·5 mm" uses a raised middle dot — both verified at 5x.]

[NOTE: 'C.com' is printed within roman single quotation marks. The side-headings "Polygastric phase", "Anterior nectophore" and "Posterior nectophore" are italic, each followed in the printed setting by an extra-wide space after the colon. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=152 file=page_152.txt>>>
[PAGE 147]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	147

[FIGURE]
A

B

10mm.
0

C.rad.lat
C.com.
C.rad.d.
Som.
C.pa
C.ped
Pl.M.
C

FIG. 85.   Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars)
Three anterior nectophores from the Celtic Sea (M.B.A. Plymouth), A, B, C
C.com = commissural canal; C.pa = pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; C.rad.d, C.rad.l, = dorsal and lateral radial canals; Pl.m = mouth-plate; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 49).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
A

C.pa
k
l
H
B

C

Vel.
Pl.M.
H
D
C.pa
C.ped
0	10mm.

FIG. 86.   Sulculeolaria biloba (Sars). Posterior nectophore from the
Celtic Sea
A, C, dorsal and lateral view of the mouth-plate, × 2.5; B, ventrolateral view of the proximal end to show triangular articulating facets, × 3.5; D, lateral view, × 3.5
C.pa = pallial  canal;  C.ped = pedicular  canal;  H = hydroecium; k–l = baso  ventral  sector;  Pl.m = mouth-plate;  Vel = velum (from Totton, 1954, fig. 51).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries no body text — only text-figures 85 and 86 with their captions. Text-fig. 85 occupies the upper half: three drawings of whole nectophores side by side, A, B and C from left to right, with a vertical scale bar standing between B and C and all the flag-lettering carried on the right-hand drawing C. Text-fig. 86 occupies the lower half: A at the top left, B and C side by side below it, and D, a large lateral view, across the width beneath them, with a horizontal scale bar at D's lower left. Inside each [FIGURE] the lettering is listed drawing by drawing in each drawing's own reading order, blank lines separating the drawings, then the printed caption.]

[NOTE: scale-bar legends: text-fig. 85's bar is lettered "10mm." at the top and "0" at the foot, given here as two lines; text-fig. 86's bar is lettered "0" at the left end and "10mm." to its right, given here on one line separated by a tab. Both were verified at 12–14x.]

[NOTE: the drawn lettering does not match the caption keys in punctuation, and each is transcribed as printed. Verified at 7–12x: drawing C of text-fig. 85 letters "C.rad.lat" with no final stop but "C.com." and "C.rad.d." with stops, and letters the mouth-plate "Pl.M." with a capital M, whereas the key gives "C.com", "C.rad.d", "C.rad.l" and "Pl.m". Drawing D of text-fig. 86 likewise letters "Pl.M." and "Vel."; the key gives "Pl.m" and "Vel". The key of text-fig. 85 lists "C.rad.l" where the drawing letters "C.rad.lat", and prints a stray comma in "C.rad.d, C.rad.l, = dorsal and lateral radial canals".]

[NOTE: in text-fig. 86 the letters "k" and "l" flag the two ends of the baso-ventral sector on drawing B; the "l" is a lower-case letter L, not a figure one — it matches the "k–l" of the caption key. The drawing letters A, B, C, D and the abbreviations are all in the sloping hand-lettered face used throughout these plates.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 85, Totton, 1954, fig. 49; FIG. 86, × 2.5, × 3.5, × 3.5, Totton, 1954, fig. 51; the scale legends "10mm." twice. The magnifications use saltire crosses with low, on-baseline decimal points. Extra-wide spaces occur throughout the key of text-fig. 86 (the caption is set to a narrow measure and word-spaced out); they are reproduced above as double spaces. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=153 file=page_153.txt>>>
[PAGE 148]

148	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

text-fig. 50). The detailed shape of the mouth-plate, which consists of two side pieces and a central thickening, is shown in figures A, C and D of the figure cited above.

There is a succession of buds. I have seen a pair, a larger posterior with a smaller anterior, as shown by Bigelow (1918, fig. 198). There was in addition a third rudiment on the base of the pedicel of the small anterior bud.

Tentilla:   Of the basic calycophoran pattern. The pedicel is folded concertina-wise in its distal part, next to the saccus. In the saccus it is continued by a single 'Angelband', also folded concertina-wise, larger in diameter distally where it is attached to the outer end of the saccus, at the junction of cnidoband, rowel (see 3 below) and terminal filament. There are three chief types of nematocysts, apart from those of the terminal filament:

[TABLE]
		Length	Diameter
		in μ	in μ
1.	Two baso-lateral groups of three large ensiform	56–58	7–8
2.	Small paliform, of cnidoband	19–24	3–5
3.	Two bunches of three small pyriform nematocysts
	called the rowel, on branching fibre	9–11	7–8
[/TABLE]

Eudoxid phase – not identified
(See text-fig. 84 for stem groups.)

[FIGURE]
0	2 mm.

FIG. 87   Sulculeolaria turgida (Gegenbaur)
Anterior nectophore from the Adriatic.
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
A
H
2.m.m.
1
Pl.M.
0

2.m.m.
B
1
0

FIG. 88.   Sulculeolaria turgida (Gegenbaur)
Posterior nectophore from 'Discovery' St., 1581, × 11.
A, ventral view; B, lateral view.
H = hydroecium; Pl.M = mouth-plate (from Totton, 1954, fig. 52).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the lower half of the page carries two text-figures side by side, each with its own caption set under it to the width of its own half: text-fig. 87, a single drawing, in the left half, and text-fig. 88, two drawings (A ventral and B lateral), in the right half. Following the protocol for column layout, the whole of the left figure and its caption is given first, then the whole of the right one. The two captions are set at differing depths on the page, text-fig. 88's beginning higher.]

[NOTE: scale bars. Text-fig. 87 has a horizontal bar lettered "0" at the left end and "2 mm." at the right, given here on one line separated by a tab. Text-fig. 88 has a vertical bar beside each drawing, each lettered "2.m.m." at the top, "1" at the middle tick and "0" at the foot; drawing A's bar stands to the left of the drawing and drawing B's to the right, so in A's label list "Pl.M." falls between the bar's "1" and "0". All verified at 8–12x.]

[NOTE: "FIG. 87" is printed with no full point after the number, whereas "FIG. 88." has one. The mouth-plate is lettered "Pl.M." with a stop on the drawing and given as "Pl.M" without one in the caption key; both are as printed.]

[NOTE: the table is set with the two numeric columns ranged under bold headings "Length" and "Diameter", each with "in μ" beneath; μ is the Greek letter mu. Entry 3 runs over two lines, the measurements standing against the second, and the line break is preserved. Numerals verified digit by digit: 56–58, 7–8; 19–24, 3–5; 9–11, 7–8.]

[NOTE: other numerals verified digit by digit: text-fig. 50; Bigelow (1918, fig. 198); text-fig. 84; FIG. 87; FIG. 88, 'Discovery' St., 1581, × 11, Totton, 1954, fig. 52. "St., 1581" is printed with a comma after "St.".]

[NOTE: "'Angelband'" is printed in italic within roman single quotation marks. The dash in "Eudoxid phase – not identified" is an en rule. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=154 file=page_154.txt>>>
[PAGE 149]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	149

Sulculeolaria turgida (Gegenbaur, 1853)
Plate XXXI, figures 8–9

Diphyes turgida Gegenbaur, 1853b, page 344, Taf. XVI, figures 12–21
D. turgida Gegenbaur, 1854, page 442, Taf. XXIII, figures 1–8
Galetta australis Bigelow & Sears, 1937, page 35
Sulculeolaria turgida Totton, 1954, page 107, text-figure 52

There was formerly doubt (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937) about this species, whose identity has been confused with that of other species, particularly 'Galeolaria australis', including many forms from the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Many specimens have been identified in recent years, following the capture of well preserved material from the Adriatic by Dr. T. Gamulin.

The most distinctive feature is the rounded and undivided basal lamella of the posterior nectophore (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 52). The tiny somatocyst of the anterior nectophore can easily be overlooked (see Sears, 1950). It was not figured by Gegenbaur.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXI, fig. 8)

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 87):   With a very small somatocyst. Commissural canals are present. At the moment a description, that would distinguish it from the nectophore thought to belong (by association) to S. angusta, cannot be given unless it is the constant presence of commissural canals.

Posterior nectophore (Pl. XXXI, fig. 9; text-fig. 88):   About 9 mm long, 2 mm wide, 3 mm deep, deeper, dorso-ventrally than wide with a 2 mm-long, thin, rounded, undivided mouth-plate. No lateral wings.

Eudoxid phase

Gonophores:   Figured by Gegenbaur. Both sexes found on the same stem. Figures of developmental stages – egg to larva – were given by Gegenbaur (1853b, Taf. XVI, figs. 12–21) as Diphyes sieboldi, corrected to D. turgida on page 344.

Sulculeolaria angusta Totton, 1954
Text-figure 89

The posterior nectophore is distinctive, but so far the anterior one cannot be distinguished from that of S. turgida, unless it proves never to develop commisural canals.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 89c):   About 8 mm in length and 4 mm in depth. Somatocyst minute, but varying in size up to about 0·04 mm in length. The halves of the long mouth-plate have roundly pointed distal edges. No commissural canals.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 89a, b):   Long and narrow 13·5 mm × 3·5 mm. Mouth-plate 3·25 mm long, thickened proximally with a small prominence in the lower edge of the thickening, thin and emarginate distally. In general shape the mouth-plate resembles that of S. chuni but is thicker proximally. No dorso-lateral ridge.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: Gegenbaur, 1853; Plate XXXI, figures 8–9; Gegenbaur, 1853b, page 344, Taf. XVI, figures 12–21; Gegenbaur, 1854, page 442, Taf. XXIII, figures 1–8; Bigelow & Sears, 1937, page 35; Totton, 1954, page 107, text-figure 52; Bigelow & Sears, 1937; Totton, 1954, text-fig. 52; Sears, 1950; Pl. XXXI, fig. 8; text-fig. 87; Pl. XXXI, fig. 9; text-fig. 88; 9 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 2 mm-long; Gegenbaur (1853b, Taf. XVI, figs. 12–21); page 344; Totton, 1954; Text-figure 89; text-fig. 89c; 8 mm, 4 mm, 0·04 mm; text-fig. 89a, b; 13·5 mm × 3·5 mm; 3·25 mm.]

[NOTE: the decimal points of "0·04", "13·5", "3·5" and "3·25" are raised middle dots; the multiplication sign in "13·5 mm × 3·5 mm" is a saltire cross. In "0·04 mm" the zeros are old-style and sit at x-height, so the group resembles "o·o4" in this face; they are zeros. All verified at 5x.]

[NOTE: "commisural" in the paragraph under the Sulculeolaria angusta heading is printed with one s, against "commissural" elsewhere on the page; kept as printed. "deeper, dorso-ventrally than wide" carries the author's own comma.]

[NOTE: the two species headings are bold italic; the four synonymy lines under the first are set smaller with the taxon names italic. "'Galeolaria australis'" is printed in italic within roman single quotation marks. The dashes in "– egg to larva –" and "Eudoxid phase – not identified." are en rules. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=155 file=page_155.txt>>>
[PAGE 150]

150	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
e
k
2.mm.
1
0
Prom
[?s]
Prom.
Som:
C
A
B
Nch.

FIG. 89.   Sulculeolaria angusta Totton. Polygastric phase
A, B, lateral and dorsal views of the posterior nectophore, 'Discovery' St. 1586; C, lateral view of the anterior nectophore, Gulf of Aden, × 8.5
Nch = notch in the mouth-plate; Prom = prominence on mouth-plate; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 53).
[/FIGURE]

Sulculeolaria chuni (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908)
Text-figure 90

Galeolaria chuni L. & v.R., 1908
Galetta chuni, Totton 1932, text-fig. 20

Easily distinguishable by its possession of a long somatocyst and a thin emarginate lamella in the posterior nectophore.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Up to about 6 mm in length × 3 mm deep, without ostial teeth, with a long somatocyst (4 mm × 0·3 mm). There are no commisural canals.

Posterior nectophore:   Up to 9 mm long × 2·75 mm deep, with thin emarginate mouth-plate or basal lamella, up to 25 mm long × 2·75 mm wide. There are no dorso-lateral ridges.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[NOTE: the upper 55 per cent of the page is occupied by text-fig. 89, three drawings side by side (A, B, C), with its caption set beneath. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] is given in the order it is met reading the drawings left to right and top to bottom: "e" and "k" are small italic letters at the head of drawing A, unexplained in the caption; then the vertical scale bar standing to the left of A, lettered "2.mm." at the top, "1" at the middle tick and "0" at the foot; then A's "Prom" (no stop) and B's "Prom." (with stop); "Som:" on C; the drawing letters A, B, C; and "Nch." beneath B. All verified at 5–20x.]

[NOTE: the mark transcribed "[?s]" sits at the left end of the dashed leader running to "Prom." on drawing B. It is a small italic letter in the same hand as "e" and "k"; "s" is my best reading, but it could be a numeral 5 or a "z", and it may be a stray drawing stroke rather than lettering.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 89; 'Discovery' St. 1586; × 8.5; Totton, 1954, fig. 53; (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908); Text-figure 90; L. & v.R., 1908; Totton 1932, text-fig. 20; 6 mm × 3 mm; 4 mm × 0·3 mm; 9 mm × 2·75 mm; 25 mm × 2·75 mm.]

[NOTE: the decimal point in the caption's "8.5" is a full stop sitting on the baseline, whereas the decimal points in the body text ("0·3", "2·75") are raised middle dots. Both verified at 14–20x; the difference is as printed. All the multiplication signs are saltire crosses. The zero of "0·3 mm" is an old-style figure at x-height, so the group resembles "o·3"; it is a zero.]

[NOTE: "commisural" is printed with one s, as on page 149. "up to 25 mm long" for the basal lamella of a nectophore given as "up to 9 mm long" is as printed; the numeral was checked at 10x and is 25, not 2·5.]

[NOTE: "FIG. 89." is small capitals with a full point after the number. The species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman parentheses; the two synonymy lines are set smaller with the taxon names italic. "Nch", "Prom" and "Som" in the caption key are italic and carry no stops there, against the stops on the drawings. The dash in "Eudoxid phase – not identified." is an en rule. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=156 file=page_156.txt>>>
[PAGE 151]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	151

[FIGURE]
C
B
1 MM
0·25 MM
1 MM
1 MM
1 MM
D
E
A

FIG. 90.   Sulculeolaria chuni (L. & v. R.). Polygastric phase
A, anterior nectophore, Gt. Barrier Reef, × 15.5; B, posterior nectophore (apex damaged) Gt. Barrier Reef; C, ventro-lateral view of proximal part of the posterior nectophore from 6° 10′ N, 24° 5′ W, × 48; D, lateral view of the same, × 12.5; E, dorsal view of the mouth-plate of the same, × 17 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 20)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the whole page above the caption is text-fig. 90 — five drawings (A–E) disposed irregularly over the page, with no body text at all. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] is given top to bottom, and left to right within a band: "C" at the head of the large drawing at the upper left; "B" at the head of the drawing at the upper right; the "1 MM" scale bar standing to the right of B; the "0·25 MM" bar standing to the right of C; the "1 MM" bar at the right-hand edge above drawing A; the "1 MM" bar to the right of drawing E; the "1 MM" bar to the left of drawing D; then the drawing letters D (lower left), E (lower centre) and A (lower right). All verified at 4·5–14x.]

[NOTE: on the four "1 MM" bars the numeral is a plain vertical stroke set very close to the small-capital "MM", with only a hair space between; a space is given here. On the "0·25 MM" bar the space before "MM" is wide and unambiguous. All five bars are vertical rules with a serif at each end.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FIG. 90; × 15.5; 6° 10′ N, 24° 5′ W, × 48; × 12.5; × 17; Totton, 1932, fig. 20; 0·25 MM; 1 MM. The minute marks in "10′" and "5′" are single primes.]

[NOTE: the decimal points of the caption's "15.5" and "12.5" are full stops on the baseline, whereas the decimal point of "0·25" in the figure lettering is a raised middle dot. Both are as printed, and match the same split on page 150. The multiplication signs are saltire crosses.]

[NOTE: the authority is printed "(L. & v. R.)" here, with a space between the two initials, against "L. & v.R." without one on page 150. Both are as printed. "(apex damaged) Gt. Barrier Reef" carries no comma after the closing parenthesis, and the caption ends with no full point after "fig. 20)". "FIG. 90." is small capitals with a full point after the number.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=157 file=page_157.txt>>>
[PAGE 152]

152	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Sulculeolaria monoica (Chun, 1888)
Plate XXXI, figures 5–7, 10, 12

Epibulia monoica Chun, 1888b
Galeolaria monoica Bigelow, 1911b, page 239, plate 6, figure 49

Easily distinguishable by the presence of three small dorsal teeth above the ostium in both nectophores in addition to a small pair of laterals. The somatocyst is minute.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (Pl. XXXI, figs. 5–6):   Up to 10 mm in length × 4·5 mm deep. Three fine dorsal and a pair of smaller triangular lateral teeth of varying size round the ostium. Somatocyst minute. Commissural canals present. Basal lamella or mouth-plate divided and bearing a pair of small teeth near the sagittal margin in the proximal part.

Posterior nectophore (Pl. XXXI, figs. 7, 10, 12):   First described by Bigelow. Up to 10·1 mm long × 0·35 mm wide. Ostial margin similar to that of anterior nectophore, with three dorsal and a pair of lateral teeth. Mouth-plate or basal lamella broadly truncate, with very slight emargination and two proximal teeth.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Sulculeolaria bigelowi (Sears, 1950)

Galetta bigelowi Sears, 1950

The only three known specimens consist of damaged anterior nectophores measuring from 3–4 mm in length. They were taken in the Marshall Islands.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Apical and conical in both lateral and dorso-ventral views.

Somatocyst minute. Base very wide, and ventro-basal facet half as long as the nectophore, less mouth-plate, which is exceptionally wide. The ventral radial canal divides just before it joins the circular canal. No commissural canals present.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Sub-family ii: DIPHYINAE

In the polygastric phase of these Calyconects there are generally two nectophores, the posterior one sometimes reduced or suppressed altogether, of pentagonal cross-section, one placed behind the other. The anterior one is pyramidal; the posterior one either has a truncate forward end which articulates with the base of the anterior, or a prolongation which fits into the hydroecium.

Genus: DIPHYES Cuvier, 1817

Diphyopsis Haeckel, 1888b

Type species: Diphyes dispar Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821, for Salpa (bipartita) lancelota bipartita Bory de St. Vincent, 1804, plate VI, figures 3A–C. Cuvier used no specific name.

There are four species of Diphyes (sensu restrict[illegible] Totton, 1932); dispar, bojani, chamissonis and

[NOTE: a round solid ink blot about one character wide stands immediately after "restrict" in the last line of the page, obscuring the character or characters between it and "Totton". "restricto" would fit the space and the Latin, but the blot is opaque and I will not guess; it is transcribed "[illegible]". A faint pale sliver inside the blot is the only trace of the underlying letter. Verified at 14x.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: (Chun, 1888); Plate XXXI, figures 5–7, 10, 12; Chun, 1888b; Bigelow, 1911b, page 239, plate 6, figure 49; Pl. XXXI, figs. 5–6; 10 mm × 4·5 mm; Pl. XXXI, figs. 7, 10, 12; 10·1 mm × 0·35 mm; (Sears, 1950); Sears, 1950; 3–4 mm; Cuvier, 1817; Haeckel, 1888b; Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821; Bory de St. Vincent, 1804, plate VI, figures 3A–C; Totton, 1932.]

[NOTE: the decimal points of "4·5", "10·1" and "0·35" are raised middle dots; the zeros in "10 mm", "10·1" and "0·35" are old-style figures sitting at x-height, so "0·35" resembles "o·35" and "10" resembles "1o"; they are zeros, verified at 14–16x. The multiplication signs are saltire crosses. The ranges "5–7", "5–6", "3–4" and "3A–C" use en rules.]

[NOTE: the two species headings and "DIPHYES" are bold italic; the synonymy lines under each are set smaller with the taxon names italic. "DIPHYINAE" is bold roman capitals. In "Sub-family ii: DIPHYINAE", "Genus: DIPHYES" and "Type species: Diphyes" the colon is preceded by a thin space in the printing; the thin space is not reproduced here. "Sub-family ii" uses lower-case roman numerals. "Calyconects" is capitalised as printed. The dashes in the two "Eudoxid phase – not identified." lines are en rules.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=158 file=page_158.txt>>>
[PAGE 153]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	153

antarctica. There is reason to believe that the anterior nectophore in these species is the larval one retained.

The anterior nectophore is five-ridged. Except in the isolated antarctic species, where the dorsal tooth is obscured, there are three conspicuous teeth round the ostium. The mouth-plate is undivided and the hydroecium deep. A posterior nectophore is produced except in D. chamissonis. There is a rete mirabile at the velar ends of all four radial canals of the anterior nectophores of dispar, bojani and chamissonis. It is found in a simpler form also in antarctica.

Polygastric phase

Species in which the large pentagonal anterior nectophore has a complete dorsal ridge extending from apex to ostium, three large ostial teeth and undivided mouth-plate with slightly prominent baso-lateral angles. Hydroecium deep. The lateral radial canals of the posterior nectophore, where developed, form an apical loop.

Haeckel (1888b, p. 152) purported to select what is now known as Chelophyes appendiculata as the type species. This is ultra vires since Diphyes Cuvier was monotypic.

Eudoxid phase

Details are given in the specific descriptions.

Diphyes dispar Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821
Plate XXXIII, figure 3

For synonymy see Moser, 1925, pp. 170–171. The following corrections and amendments should be made to her synonymy "Kolonie":
Diphyopsis compressa Haeckel, 1888, [read] p. 153
Doramasia picta Chun, 1892, [read] p. 91–8 T.VIII F.3, T.IX F.5 Canaren
Eudoxie:
Eudoxia lessonii Eschscholtz, 1829 [omit: ? = Dimophyes arctica]
Cucullus doreyanus Blainville, 1834, p. 131 [omit figure reference]
Ersaea lessoni Mayer, 1900, p. 75 T.XXVIII [read] F.96, 97 ..."

The principal figures of the whole of this well-known animal, the first Calycophoran siphonophore to be described and figured, are those of Eschscholtz (1829, Taf. XII, fig. 6); Huxley (1859, Pl. 1, fig. 1); Haeckel (1888b, Pl. XXXIII, fig. 1); Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908, Pl. VIII, fig. 63) and Kawamura (1915, Pl. XII, fig. 21).

Moser (1925) dealt with this species at very great length, but her theorizing has been judged to be unsound. Huxley gave the early history of the species, first described and figured by Bory de St. Vincent (1804). Since this is the species on which Cuvier founded his genus Diphyes, and since Bory's description is difficult to understand until one realizes that, as Huxley pointed out, Bory regarded the anterior nectophore as the posterior, I give a translation of part of Bory's description with an explanatory gloss in square brackets.

'. . . The anterior part [posterior nectophore] shows five projecting angles [ostial teeth] the dorsal side being carinate, the lower [ventral] on the contrary is furrowed. One recognizes in this part [posterior nectophore] two longitudinal cavities; from the upper one [hydroecium] emerges an artefact thread [a stem], often very long and rarely complete; it carries, when present, a mass of small bodies [gastrozooids, etc.] which resemble the pedicellate glands of many plants. The posterior part [anterior nectophore] is constricted at its extremity [apex] and has some similarities with the shape of a lancet; the upper [ventral] side, which is flat, is one-and-a-half lines thick. In this thick part is found an internal cavity [hydroecium], into which enters a sort of spur (pedicel of posterior nectophore) which terminates the anterior part [posterior nectophore]; and here is the only apparent union of the

11

[NOTE: printed square brackets are the author's own throughout this page and are not transcriber markers. They occur seventeen times. Five are in the synonymy block: "[read] p. 153" after "Haeckel, 1888,"; "[read] p. 91–8" after "Chun, 1892,"; "[omit: ? = Dimophyes arctica]" after "Eschscholtz, 1829"; "[omit figure reference]" after "p. 131"; and "[read] F.96, 97" in the Ersaea lessoni line. Twelve are the editorial glosses in the translation of Bory in the last paragraph, which Totton announces in the preceding sentence as "an explanatory gloss in square brackets": [posterior nectophore], [ostial teeth], [ventral], [posterior nectophore], [hydroecium], [a stem], [gastrozooids, etc.], [anterior nectophore], [apex], [ventral], [hydroecium], [posterior nectophore]. All are transcribed exactly as printed, and nothing inside them is mine.]

[NOTE: the "11" on the last line of the page, at the foot in the outer left position, is a printer's signature mark, not a folio. The folio of this page is 153, printed at the head with the running head.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE, 153; Haeckel (1888b, p. 152); Chamisso & Eysenhardt, 1821; Plate XXXIII, figure 3; Moser, 1925, pp. 170–171; Haeckel, 1888, [read] p. 153; Chun, 1892, [read] p. 91–8 T.VIII F.3, T.IX F.5; Eschscholtz, 1829; Blainville, 1834, p. 131; Mayer, 1900, p. 75 T.XXVIII [read] F.96, 97; Eschscholtz (1829, Taf. XII, fig. 6); Huxley (1859, Pl. 1, fig. 1); Haeckel (1888b, Pl. XXXIII, fig. 1); Lens & van Riemsdijk (1908, Pl. VIII, fig. 63); Kawamura (1915, Pl. XII, fig. 21); Moser (1925); Bory de St. Vincent (1804). "p. 91–8" is an elided range as printed. In "Huxley (1859, Pl. 1, fig. 1)" both numerals are 1, checked at 4x.]

[NOTE: "T.VIII F.3", "T.IX F.5", "T.XXVIII" and "F.96, 97" are printed with no space after the stop, as given. The "?" and the "=" in "[omit: ? = Dimophyes arctica]" are as printed, the equals sign being two short parallel rules. The ellipsis after "F.96, 97" is three spaced full points, and is followed immediately by a closing double quotation mark, which closes the quotation opened at "Kolonie". The opening quotation mark of the Bory translation is a single one, followed by a spaced three-point ellipsis.]

[NOTE: the species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman; the synonymy block is set in smaller type, the taxon names italic, and is indented in stages — "For synonymy" flush, "Kolonie" and "Eudoxie:" at one indent, the five taxon lines at a deeper indent. Line breaks within the synonymy block are preserved. "see" in "For synonymy see Moser" is italic. "Calycophoran", "Kolonie" and "Eudoxie" are capitalised as printed. "artefact thread" is as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=159 file=page_159.txt>>>
[PAGE 154]

154	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

two parts [nectophores] of the animal. There is also another lower cavity [nectosac] in the near half [anterior nectophore] of which the aperture, notched [toothed] at the point of junction of the two parts, forms a peg [dorsal tooth] at their union.' Bory's figures make the identity of his animal quite certain.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 8):   Up to 35 mm length (see Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. VIII, fig. 63; also Bigelow, 1919, p. 341). Laterally compressed with five longitudinal ridges, the dorsal ones serrated, with a prominent reflexed dorsal tooth, larger than the laterals; ventral contour more convex than the dorsal one. The aperture of the hydroecial cavity is large and quadrilateral, occupying more than two-thirds of the basal width. The lateral edges are cut off very obliquely from the ventral side down to the mouth-plate, which according to Huxley is formed by two very broad quadrate overlapping wings (septal plates'). Huxley gives the following proportions for an inch long nectophore: Length 1, depth 11/24, thickness 1/4.

The hydroecium extends for about half the length of the nectophore. The somatocyst is narrow and sub-cylindrical and does not extend so far as the upper caecal extremity of the nectosac. The nectosac is wide and sub-cylindrical for most of its length, but towards the apex the lumen is suddenly occluded, leaving the narrow apical loop of the dorsal radial canal.

The peduncular (nectocalycine) canal descends vertically from the base of the somatocyst to a point near the circular canal so that the ventral radial canal is very short (see Huxley, 1859, Pl. V, fig. 3). Dorsal side of mouth-plate not denticulate but smooth.

[FIGURE]
1 MM

FIG. 91.   Diphyes dispar (Chamisso & Eysenhardt)
Eudoxid phase, Gt. Barrier Reef. Lateral view, × 13
(from Totton, 1932, fig. 21).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
1 MM

FIG. 92.   Diphyes bojani
(Eschscholtz)
Eudoxid phase, Gt. Barrier Reef. Lateral view, × 16 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 22).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: printed square brackets are the author's own on this page and are not transcriber markers. Five occur, all in the first paragraph, which continues the glossed translation of Bory begun on page 153: "[nectophores]" after "two parts", "[nectosac]" after "another lower cavity", "[anterior nectophore]" opening the second line, "[toothed]" after "notched", and "[dorsal tooth]" after "forms a peg". The closing single quotation mark after "union." ends the quotation opened on page 153.]

[NOTE: the lower half of the page carries two text-figures side by side, each with its own caption set to the width of its own half: text-fig. 91 in the left half and text-fig. 92 in the right half. Following the protocol for column layout, the whole of the left figure and its caption is given first, then the whole of the right one. Text-fig. 92's caption begins higher on the page than text-fig. 91's. Each figure has a single vertical scale bar lettered "1 MM" at its top, the numeral a plain vertical stroke set very close to the small-capital "MM"; fig. 91's bar stands at the upper left of its drawing, fig. 92's at the lower left of its drawing. Line breaks within the captions are preserved as printed.]

[NOTE: "depth 11/24, thickness 1/4" — both are printed as stacked fractions with a horizontal rule. The "thickness" one is a single 1-over-4 sort. The "depth" one is set from two adjacent fraction sorts whose rules abut, giving numerator "11" over denominator "24"; at 24x a hairline break is visible between the two rules, so the setting could also be described as a "1/2" sort immediately followed by a "1/4" sort. I transcribe the printed appearance, numerator 11 over denominator 24, as "11/24", and flag the ambiguity rather than resolve it. "Length 1" is a bare old-style 1.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: text-fig. 8; 35 mm; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. VIII, fig. 63; Bigelow, 1919, p. 341; Huxley, 1859, Pl. V, fig. 3; FIG. 91, × 13, Totton, 1932, fig. 21; FIG. 92, × 16, Totton, 1932, fig. 22. "text-fig. 8" is a single digit 8, checked at 5x, and is not 88 or 89. The multiplication signs are saltire crosses.]

[NOTE: "(septal plates')" carries a closing single quotation mark after "plates" with no opening one — as printed. "see" is italic in both "(see Lens & van Riemsdijk" and "(see Huxley". "FIG. 91." and "FIG. 92." are small capitals with a full point after the number; the species names in both captions are italic and the authorities roman in parentheses.]

<<<PAGE pdf=160 file=page_160.txt>>>
[PAGE 155]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	155

For many years I have collected the smallest anterior nectophores I could find in an attempt to discover whether the definitive one develops directly from the larval one – as I suspect – or is a secondary heteromorph one. A successful breeding experiment would settle this important question. Moser (1925, p. 192) refers to it as the definitive 'Einglockenstadium'. This is Chun's (1892) D. picta.

Posterior nectophore (see Huxley, 1859, Pl. 1, fig. 16C; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 10, fig. 1):   A useful criterion for distinguishing the posterior nectophore of D. dispar from that of D. bojani is the comparatively larger size of the dorsal tooth. The mouth-plate is thick, and the two hydroecial flaps remain separated, and do not form a closed canal as in Chelophyes spp. Lateral basal edges and lateral hydroecial teeth smooth.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXIII, fig. 3)

(Text-fig. 91.)   About 7·5 mm long. Formerly identified with the Eudoxia lessonii of Eschscholtz (1825). For critical comments on this identification see Totton, 1932, page 346. The earliest recognizable figure is Huxley's (1859, Pl. III, fig. 6) of E. lessonii. The head-piece of the bract is 50% shorter than the neck-shield. The dorsal and sutural surfaces are nearly straight as seen from the side in optical section, and meet at an acute angle at the apex. The phyllocyst is broad at the base; tapers to an obtuse point above and has no lateral processes. It is equal in length to about two-thirds the distance from the apex of the bract to the apex of its basal cavity. The overall length of the bract is only a little less than the length of the asexual swimming bell. The relationship between the radial canals of this bell and the apex of its nectosac are constant (see my fig. op. cit.).

For a detailed description see Totton, op. cit., page 348. All the gonophores of any single eudoxid are of one sex, but any two successively budded gonophores are mirror-images of one another.

Diphyes bojani (Eschscholtz, 1829)
Text-figure 92

? Diphyes serrata Chun, 1888a, 1897b
For remainder of synonymy see Moser, 1925, p. 208. (There are some errors in the page and figure numbers quoted.)

This common species appears to be closely related to D. dispar though the bract of the eudoxid is very different. The best figures of the polygastric phase are: Bigelow, 1911b, plate 7, figures 2, 3; plate 9, figure 1; plate 10, figures 2, 3; and Moser, 1925, Taf. XIII, figure 1.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 14 mm in length; symmetrically pyramidal, five ridged, with some variation in the arrangement at the apex (see Bigelow, 1911b, p. 252), slender, pointed at the apex, the ridges often expanded in the apical third of their length. The serrations of the ridges are variable. The nectosac gradually narrows towards its apex, which lies close to the apex of the nectophore. The hydroecium is pointed above and reaches nearly to one-third of the height of the nectosac. The somatocyst is fusiform. A pair of large dorso-basal and latero-basal teeth. The dorsal tooth is not as prominent as it is in D. dispar, and is usually smaller than the laterals. The dorsal side of the mouth-plate bears a more or less marked median vertical crest of small teeth, first mentioned by Gegenbaur (1859, p. 370) and figured by Bigelow (1918, Pl. 8, figs. 3, 4).

Posterior nectophore:   Up to 10 mm in length. Slender, but resembling that of D. dispar, the two lateral flaps of the hydroecium separated. Lateral basal edges and lateral hydroecial teeth serrated.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 92.)   Characterized by its shield-like bract which lies in a plane parallel to the long axis of the large asexual swimming bell. The semi-annular phyllocyst of the young bract never develops

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE, 155; Moser (1925, p. 192); Chun's (1892); Huxley, 1859, Pl. 1, fig. 16C; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 10, fig. 1; Pl. XXXIII, fig. 3; Text-fig. 91.; 7·5 mm; Eschscholtz (1825); Totton, 1932, page 346; Huxley's (1859, Pl. III, fig. 6); 50%; Totton, op. cit., page 348; (Eschscholtz, 1829); Text-figure 92; Chun, 1888a, 1897b; Moser, 1925, p. 208; Bigelow, 1911b, plate 7, figures 2, 3; plate 9, figure 1; plate 10, figures 2, 3; Moser, 1925, Taf. XIII, figure 1; 14 mm; Bigelow, 1911b, p. 252; Gegenbaur (1859, p. 370); Bigelow (1918, Pl. 8, figs. 3, 4); 10 mm; Text-fig. 92.]

[NOTE: "Eschscholtz (1825)" in the Eudoxid phase paragraph and "(Eschscholtz, 1829)" in the species heading below it are both as printed; the 1825 was checked at 16x and is not 1829. In "Huxley, 1859, Pl. 1, fig. 16C" the plate number is a bare old-style 1. The zeros in "10", "50%", "208", "252", "370" and "348" are old-style figures at x-height. The decimal point of "7·5" is a raised middle dot.]

[NOTE: two small stray ink marks stand in the lower margin below the text, towards the right — a short slanting stroke and, lower and to its right, a small hook. Neither is a legible character and neither is transcribable text; they are probably offset ink or a scanning artefact.]

[NOTE: the "?" opening the synonymy line "? Diphyes serrata Chun, 1888a, 1897b" is the author's own query about the synonymy, printed as a bare question mark with no brackets round it. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

[NOTE: the dashes in "the larval one – as I suspect – or is a" are en rules. "'Einglockenstadium'" is printed in roman within single quotation marks. "see", "op. cit." and "op. cit.," are italic where they occur. The species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman parentheses; the two synonymy lines below it are set in smaller type with the taxon name italic. Paragraph-opening side-headings ("Posterior nectophore", "Anterior nectophore", "Eudoxid phase", "Polygastric phase") are italic, and are followed by a wide space where a colon is not printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=161 file=page_161.txt>>>
[PAGE 156]

156	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

a secondary upstanding part as in most 'diphyid' bracts. The relationship of the articulating surfaces of bract and swimming bell in the apical region resembles that found in early developmental stages of the eudoxids of D. dispar and D. chamissonis. This surface is vertical. The cavity of the bract is very shallow. The ends of the phyllocyst grow out horizontally into horns.

The tiny mature gonophore has a cylindrical peduncle set on at an angle towards its right ventral side. It has no ridges, but vestiges of a dorsal tooth can be seen and a small elliptical mouth-plate. The manubrium which carries six or seven eggs in the female nearly fills the sub-umbrella.

The asymmetrical nectocalyx of the swimming bell has an enlargement in the middle of the left-hand side. For further details see Moser (1925, p. 214); Totton (1932, p. 350).

Diphyes chamissonis Huxley, 1859
Text-figures 93, 94

Diphyopsis weberi Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

A species not often taken in the open oceans, but very abundant in certain places offshore such as inside the great Barrier Reef. The then known distribution was given by Totton (1932, p. 351) who was the last reviewer.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 93):   Up to 12 mm in length. Five longitudinal ridges, all reaching the apex. Apex not sharply pointed. At this point the ventral facet is twisted over a little to the right. The three ostial teeth of about the same size.

Hydroecium deep, reaching up to the mid length of the nectosac and extending well below the level of the ostium. Somatocyst short, fusiform.

[FIGURE]
1 MM

FIG. 93.   Diphyes chamissonis Huxley Polygastric phase, Great Barrier Reef. Lateral view of the solitary (anterior) nectophore, to show the asymmetrical twist of the ventral facet, fig. 23). × 10.5 (from Totton, 1932)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the lower half of the page is a single text-figure, text-fig. 93, a drawing set centrally with its three-line caption beneath. The only lettering on the drawing is the vertical scale bar to the upper right, lettered "1 MM" at the top, the numeral a plain vertical stroke set very close to the small-capital "MM". Verified at 5x.]

[NOTE: the caption's "the ventral facet, fig. 23). × 10.5" carries a closing parenthesis after "fig. 23" with no opening one, and the caption ends with "(from Totton, 1932)" and no full point. Both are as printed.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 156; Moser (1925, p. 214); Totton (1932, p. 350); Huxley, 1859; Text-figures 93, 94; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; Totton (1932, p. 351); text-fig. 93; 12 mm; FIG. 93; fig. 23; × 10.5; Totton, 1932. The decimal point of the caption's "10.5" is a full stop on the baseline, matching the other captions in this range; the zeros of "10.5", "350", "351", "1908" and "214" are old-style figures at x-height. The multiplication sign is a saltire cross.]

[NOTE: a short slanting stray ink stroke stands alone in the outer lower margin, well below and to the right of the caption. It is not a legible character and is not transcribable text — probably offset ink or a scanning artefact.]

[NOTE: "'diphyid'" is printed in roman within single quotation marks. "see" is italic. The species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman; the single synonymy line is set in smaller type with the taxon name italic. "FIG. 93." is small capitals with a full point after the number, and the species name in the caption is italic with "Huxley" roman. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=162 file=page_162.txt>>>
[PAGE 157]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	157

[FIGURE]
1 MM
1 MM
1 MM
A
B
C

FIG. 94.   Diphyes chamissonis Huxley. Eudoxid phase, Gt. Barrier Reef
A, ventral; B, lateral; C, dorsal view of the bract, × 20 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 24)
[/FIGURE]

Nectosac not constricted apically. There is a deep basal notch in the ventral wall of the hydroecium, and also in the mouth-plate.

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 94.)   About 5·5 mm in length, the neck-shield of the bract is of about the same length as the head piece. The plane of articulation between bract and asexual swimming bell lies at about 45° to the long axis. The posterior (lower) part of the sutural surface is well rounded off. The dorsal and sutural surfaces, seen in optical section from the side, are rounded, and meet at the apex almost at right angles. The apical wall of the nectosac of the asexual bell is longer than in D. dispar. It is inclined at an angle to the long axis instead of being at right angles to it as in dispar. The pedicular canal of the bell is shorter than the apical wall of the nectosac. There is a rounded mouth-plate, and a small tooth on the hydroecial flap. Sexes are separate, the female manubrium bears from six to eight eggs. There are from six to seven simple, sac-like gonophores on each eudoxid. There appears to be no umbrella.

Diphyes antarctica Moser, 1925
Plate XXXIV

A form confined entirely to the Antarctic.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXIV, fig. 3)

Anterior nectophore (Pl. XXXIV, fig. 1):   Up to 28 mm in length (see Moser, 1925, Pls. IX, X). Bilaterally symmetrical, with five longitudinal ridges.

[NOTE: the upper half of the page is a single text-figure, text-fig. 94, three drawings side by side (A, B, C) with a two-line caption beneath running the width of the type page. The only lettering on the drawings is the three vertical scale bars, each lettered "1 MM" at the top with the numeral a plain vertical stroke set very close to the small-capital "MM": the first stands to the right of drawing A, the second above and to the right of drawing B, and the third to the right of drawing C. The drawing letters A, B and C stand at the foot of their drawings. Verified at 5–16x; there is no other lettering on the figure.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE, 157; FIG. 94, × 20, Totton, 1932, fig. 24; Text-fig. 94.; 5·5 mm; 45°; Moser, 1925; Plate XXXIV; Pl. XXXIV, fig. 3; Pl. XXXIV, fig. 1; 28 mm; Moser, 1925, Pls. IX, X. The decimal point of "5·5" is a raised middle dot; the "°" of "45°" is a superscript ring. The multiplication sign is a saltire cross.]

[NOTE: a short slanting stray ink stroke stands alone in the outer lower margin at the right, well below the last line of text, as on page 156. It is not a legible character and is not transcribable text.]

[NOTE: "see" is italic. The species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman. "FIG. 94." is small capitals with a full point after the number; the species name in the caption is italic with "Huxley" roman. In the body text "neçtosac" (line beginning "canal of the bell") appears to carry a stray downward hairline under the c, an artefact of the printing rather than a cedilla; the word is "nectosac". No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=163 file=page_163.txt>>>
[PAGE 158]

158	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

At first sight there seems to be no dorsal tooth, but it is obscured only because its sides descend instead of rising towards the ostium. It is visible in optical section, but is very much shorter than the lateral teeth. The apex of the nectosac is not constricted. The mouth-plate is divided – one of the species' primitive features. The hydroecium scarcely reaches up to the middle of the nectosac. The somatocyst is short, spindle-shaped, and reaches up to a point on the nectosac about one-quarter of its length from the apex.

Posterior nectophore (Pl. XXXIV, fig. 11):   Up to 28 mm in length (see Moser, op. cit., Taf. IX, fig. 4). The dorsal tooth is obscured in the same way as described above for the anterior nectophore. The pedicel is long and fine, the proximal part of its ventral side concave where it articulates with the baso-dorsal part of the hydroecial cavity.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXIV, fig. 12)

Up to 16 mm in length (see Moser, 1925, Taf. X). The margins of the bract which reaches a length of 3 mm are denticulate, but there is no large basal tooth. The phyllocyst is spindle-shaped or cylindrical, tapering at the apex. The sutural surface seen in optical section from the side makes almost a right angle with the adjacent part of the upper surface of the bracteal cavity. The gonophore, which is four ridged is truncate above, with an inconspicuous pedicel.

There is a square-shaped basal mouth-plate with a pair of lateral teeth, and two strong lateral ostial teeth. The dorsal tooth is obscured in the same way as described for that of the two nectophores. The manubrium reaches a length of 5–6 mm in a gonophore of 16 mm length. At a length of 4 mm a female gonophore has developed five eggs, but at maturity perhaps as many as thirty. There is no asexual swimming bell, but at least two secondary gonophores are budded.

The cnidosac of the tentillum measures about 0·27 mm in length and has a structureless horse-shoe-shaped covering (see Moser, 1925, Taf. X, figs. 5a, 5b) at its basal end where are found a pair of lateral groups of five larger spindle-shaped nematocysts measuring about 50μ in length.

Genus: LENSIA Totton, 1932

Type species: L. subtiloides (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908).

Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides L & van Riemsdijk, 1908

Small diphyid calyconects in which the anterior nectophore of the polygastric phase is basically pentagonal in cross-section but may carry three, five, seven, fifteen, or even more longitudinal crests. The short mouth-plate is divided, its baso-lateral corners not produced into conspicuous projections. The radial canals have no commissures (cf. fig. 85C and fig. 99), and the somatocyst is relatively short. The hydroecium is generally shallow. The posterior nectophore, where known, is truncated proximally, has a rounded mouth-plate and no conspicuous teeth. The lateral radial canals of the smaller posterior nectophore are not looped, but run a slightly sigmoid course. The eudoxid has no special swimming bell. Its bract has a broad, rounded posterior margin without baso-lateral teeth, and its gonophores are truncated proximally, have a small, inconspicuous dorsal tooth, and a very narrow rounded mouth-plate.

Only a few of the eudoxid phases of species of Lensia have been described. The identification of a particular eudoxid can as a rule only be made if in a plankton haul one species predominates. Subsequent reviewers will doubtless remove certain groups of species like L. fowleri, L. hardy and L. challengeri, which resemble each other more than they do the type species, to form new genera. But all species of Lensia have the characteristic unlooped lateral radial canals in the posterior nectophores, so that if new generic groupings are made they should form a small sub-family.

Because specimens are often small and poorly preserved they have been neglected. I made a hurried review during the last war of the material I had been working on for years so that the results would

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 158; Pl. XXXIV, fig. 11; 28 mm; Moser, op. cit., Taf. IX, fig. 4; Pl. XXXIV, fig. 12; 16 mm; Moser, 1925, Taf. X; 3 mm; 5–6 mm; 16 mm; 4 mm; 0·27 mm; Moser, 1925, Taf. X, figs. 5a, 5b; 50μ; Totton, 1932; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; L & van Riemsdijk, 1908; fig. 85C and fig. 99. The decimal point of "0·27" is a raised middle dot and its zero is an old-style figure at x-height. The ranges "5–6" use an en rule. "50μ" is printed with the Greek letter mu immediately after the numeral, with no space.]

[NOTE: the synonymy line reads "Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides L & van Riemsdijk, 1908" with "L" carrying no full point, against "Lens & van Riemsdijk" spelled out in the "Type species" line just above. As printed.]

[NOTE: the dash in "The mouth-plate is divided – one of the species' primitive features." is an en rule; "species'" carries a closing apostrophe only. "see" and "cf." are italic where they occur. "Genus: LENSIA" and "Type species: L. subtiloides" have a thin space before the colon in the printing, not reproduced here; "LENSIA" is bold italic capitals. "L. hardy" is as printed, without a terminal -i. "calyconects" is lower case here, against "Calyconects" on page 152. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

[NOTE: a short slanting stray ink stroke stands alone in the outer lower margin at the right, well below the last line of text, as on pages 156 and 157. It is not a legible character and is not transcribable text.]

<<<PAGE pdf=164 file=page_164.txt>>>
[PAGE 159]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	159

be recorded. Subsequent work has shown that my judgment was sound in delimiting species, and specimens can be identified from the figures in spite of the hurried descriptions. There are twenty-one described species. Some species have no crested ridges, some have three, some five, some seven, some are multicrestate, and in one there is a ridged reticulation of the surface. The multicrestate species probably do not form a distinct sub-group because one of them, lelouveteau, like the reticulate one reticulata appear to be related to meteori and subtilis neither of which are ridged.

Key to species of Lensia
Anterior nectophores

[TABLE]
1.	Three non-crested ridges only (no ventro-lateral ridges between lateral and ventral facets)	3
	At least five ridges	2
2.	At least five longitudinal ridges, with reticulations	reticulata (p. 172)
	At least five ridges, without reticulations	4
3.	Three non-crested ridges; basal facet horse-shoe shaped; apex twisted	campanella (p. 165)
	Three non-crested ridges; basal facet horse-shoe shaped; apex not twisted	cossack (p. 166)
4.	Five crested longitudinal ridges only	7
	Five crested longitudinal ridges and two ventro-lateral crests: seven in all	5
5.	Seven crests, complete, apex to base	havock (p. 175)
	Seven crests some incomplete, apex to base	6
6.	Seven crests, some incomplete, ventro-lateral pair meeting mouth-plate	hunter (p. 164)
	Seven crests, some incomplete, ventro-lateral pair not meeting mouth-plate	multicristata (p. 164)
7.	Five non-crested ridges	8
	Five crested ridges	9
8.	Five non-crested ridges; somatocyst globular, on long pedicel	subtilis (p. 168)
	Five non-crested ridges; somatocyst on very short pedicel	meteori (p. 170)
9.	Five ridges, each with a single crest	10
	Five ridges, each with more than a single crest	17
10.	Five single-crested ridges; somatocyst elongated and lying above ostial level	11
	Five single-crested ridges; somatocyst at or below ostial level	15
11.	Five single-crested ridges; somatocyst above ostial level; base of lateral crests bending dorsad	achilles (p. 171)
	Five single crested ridges; somatocyst above ostial level; base of lateral crests continuing basad	12
12.	Base of somatocyst above ostial level	13
	Base of somatocyst below ostial level	14
13.	Mouth-plates one half as long as somatocyst	leloupi (p. 161)
	Mouth-plates one-third as long as somatocyst	subtiloides (p. 159)
14.	Length of somatocyst equal to one half the length of the nectophore	conoidea (p. 162)
	Somatocyst short and oblique. Lateral ridges reaching ostium	hotspur (p. 167)
	Somatocyst short and oblique. Lateral ridges not reaching ostium	tottoni (p. 168)
15.	Five single-crested ridges; spheroidal somatocyst, and peak-shaped basal extension of dorsal wall	challengeri (p. 166)
	No peak-shaped basal extension of dorsal wall	16
16.	Hydroecium not extending below somatocyst	fowleri (p. 174)
	Hydroecium extends below somatocyst	hardy (p. 173)
17.	Five two-crested ridges and a horizontal basal (velar) ridge	grimaldi (p. 178)
	Five ridges each with more than two crests, and a velar ridge	18
18.	Five multicristate ridges and a velar ridge	19
	Five multicristate ridges but no velar ridge	20
19.	Five multicristate (3) ridges and a velar ridge	exeter (p. 176)
	Five multicristate (3–7) ridges and a velar ridge	lelouveteau (p. 172)
20.	Five multicristate ridges; no velar ridge; crests extending to ostium	hostile (p. 177)
	Five multicristate ridges; no velar ridge; crests not extending to ostium	ajax (p. 179)
[/TABLE]

Lensia subtiloides (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908)
Text-figures 95, 96, 97B

Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

The Great Barrier Reef Expedition 1928–29 found this to be a very abundant species at from 8–

[NOTE: the key occupies the middle two-thirds of the page. Each line runs from the statement across a row of widely spaced leader points to a right-hand column holding either a bold-italic species epithet with its page reference in roman parentheses, or a bare couplet number. The leader points are not reproduced; a single tab stands for each column break, as the protocol directs. The couplet numbers stand in a narrow left column, only against the first line of each couplet. Every line break in the key is preserved.]

[NOTE: couplet 14 has three lines rather than two — "Length of somatocyst equal to one half the length of the nectophore … conoidea (p. 162)", "Somatocyst short and oblique. Lateral ridges reaching ostium … hotspur (p. 167)", and "Somatocyst short and oblique. Lateral ridges not reaching ostium … tottoni (p. 168)". This is as printed; there is no couplet number against the second or third of the three.]

[NOTE: numerals in the key verified digit by digit against the page at 4·5x. Couplet leads: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. Onward references: 3, 2, 4, 7, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 17, 11, 15, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20. Page references: reticulata 172, campanella 165, cossack 166, havock 175, hunter 164, multicristata 164, subtilis 168, meteori 170, achilles 171, leloupi 161, subtiloides 159, conoidea 162, hotspur 167, tottoni 168, challengeri 166, fowleri 174, hardy 173, grimaldi 178, exeter 176, lelouveteau 172, hostile 177, ajax 179. "hunter" and "multicristata" both refer to p. 164, and "subtilis" and "tottoni" both to p. 168; both repetitions are as printed. The bracketed figures in couplet 19 are (3) and (3–7), the latter with an en rule.]

[NOTE: other numerals verified digit by digit: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE, 159; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; Text-figures 95, 96, 97B; Diphyes (Diphyopsis) subtiloides Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908; Expedition 1928–29; "at from 8–", the last characters on the page, an old-style 8 followed by an en rule where the sentence runs over to page 160.]

[NOTE: "multicrestate" in the opening paragraph is spelled with an e, against "multicristate" in couplets 18, 19 and 20; both as printed. "Five single crested ridges" in the second line of couplet 11 has no hyphen, against "Five single-crested ridges" in the first line and in couplet 10; as printed. "hardy" carries no terminal -i, as on page 158. "judgment" is spelled without the e.]

[NOTE: the parenthesised figures in the key, "(no ventro-lateral ridges between lateral and ventral facets)", "(velar)", "(3)" and "(3–7)", are round brackets. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

[NOTE: two small stray ink marks stand in the margins clear of the text — a short slanting stroke in the upper left corner above the running head, and another in the outer lower right margin below the last line, as on pages 156–158. Neither is a legible character and neither is transcribable text.]

<<<PAGE pdf=165 file=page_165.txt>>>
[PAGE 160]

160	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
1MM
hy.t.
·5MM
A
C
hy.t.
·5M[?M]
B

FIG. 95.   Lensia subtiloides (L. & v. R.). Polygastric phase, Gt. Barrier
Reef
A, anterior nectophore, × 22; B, posterior nectophore, × 32; C, ventral view of the proximal end of the posterior nectophore, × 23. hy.t = tooth at the apex of the right hydroecial fold (from Totton, 1932, fig. 32).
[/FIGURE]

12·5 m depth, especially from December to the middle of February, in water of comparatively low salinity inside the Barrier Reef.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (see Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. VII, fig. 59; and text-fig. 95):   Up to 5 mm in length and 2 mm deep, five ridged with shallow hydroecium and an oblique ovoid stalked somatocyst about 1·2 mm in length, the ovoid part varying from 0·54 to 0·66 mm in length, and from 0·23 to 0·28 mm in diameter. The loop of the lateral canals reaches within a distance of 0·20 mm from the anterior end of the nectosac and of 0·37 mm of the apex of the nectophore. The two halves of the mouth-plate are of almost equal size, rounded and slightly projecting below the base. The anterior wall of the hydroecium extends forward to the level of the ostium. The basal end of the dorsal ridge does not form a marked tooth-like projection.

Posterior nectophore:   There is no projection of the nectosac anterior to the entry of the pedicular canal. There is a small tooth at the apex of the right hydroecial fold.

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 96.)   There are no projections on the posterior margin of the bract. The phyllocyst is club-shaped.

[NOTE: the upper two-thirds of the page is a single text-figure, text-fig. 95, three drawings (A at the left, C at the upper right and B at the middle right), with a five-line caption beneath set to about half the width of the type page. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] is given top to bottom and left to right within a band: the vertical "1MM" scale bar at the upper left of drawing A; the "hy.t." label with a leader at the top of drawing C; the vertical "·5MM" bar to the left of drawing C; the letter A on drawing A; the letter C to the right of drawing C; the second "hy.t." label with a leader above drawing B; the vertical bar to the right of drawing B; and the letter B to the left of drawing B. Verified at 8–16x.]

[NOTE: the scale bar beside drawing B is defective. It reads "·5M" followed by a small dot-sized mark where a second M would stand; at 14x the mark is too small and too round to identify as an M, but the corresponding bar beside drawing C in the same figure reads "·5MM" clearly. Transcribed "·5M[?M]" — the "[?M]" is my flagged reading of the defective sort, not printed brackets.]

[NOTE: on the two bars lettered "1MM" and "·5MM" there is no space between the numeral and the small-capital "MM", unlike the "1 MM" bars of text-figs. 91–94; the numeral of "1MM" is a plain vertical stroke, and both "·5" labels open with a raised middle dot and no zero. Verified at 16x.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 160; FIG. 95; × 22; × 32; × 23; Totton, 1932, fig. 32; 12·5 m; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. VII, fig. 59; text-fig. 95; 5 mm; 2 mm; 1·2 mm; 0·54 to 0·66 mm; 0·23 to 0·28 mm; 0·20 mm; 0·37 mm; Text-fig. 96. Every decimal point in the body text is a raised middle dot and every zero is an old-style figure sitting at x-height, so "0·54", "0·66", "0·23", "0·28", "0·20" and "0·37" resemble "o·54" and so on; they are zeros, checked at 4x. "0·20 mm" retains its trailing zero as printed. The multiplication signs are saltire crosses.]

[NOTE: "hy.t" in the caption key carries no final stop, against "hy.t." with one on both drawings; both are as printed, and the caption's "hy.t" is italic. The "=" in the caption key is an equals sign of two short parallel rules. "see" is italic. "FIG. 95." is small capitals with a full point after the number, and the species name is italic with the authority roman. The caption's first line breaks after "Gt. Barrier" with "Reef" centred alone on the second line; that break is preserved. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

[NOTE: two small stray ink marks stand well clear of the text in the outer right margin, one beside the figure and one below the last line, as on pages 156–159. Neither is a legible character.]

<<<PAGE pdf=166 file=page_166.txt>>>
[PAGE 161]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	161

[FIGURE]
A
5MM
·5MM
B
hy.f.
C
·5MM

FIG. 96.   Lensia subtiloides (L. & v. R.). Eudoxid phase, Gt. Barrier Reef
A, lateral view of the whole eudoxid, × 55; B, right lateral view of a detached gonophore with abnormal proximal end, × 31; C, similar view of a normal gonophore
hy.f = hydroecial fold (from Totton, 1932, fig. 33).
[/FIGURE]

Lensia leloupi Totton, 1954
Text-figure 97A

Resembling L. subtiloides in general, but larger and with deeper hydroecium.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 97A): About 5 mm in length, and 2·5 mm deep; five-ridged. The pedicel arises further away from the nectosac than does that of species of Muggiaea, of which genus it might otherwise be thought to belong. The mouth-plate is longer than in L. subtiloides. Somatocyst narrow. Apex of nectosac lies close to apex of nectophore. Hydroecium nearly half a millimetre deep.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.

[NOTE: the upper two-thirds of the page is a single text-figure, text-fig. 96, three drawings — A, a large one filling the left half, and B and C one above the other in the right half — with a five-line caption beneath. The lettering listed inside [FIGURE] is given top to bottom and left to right within a band: the letter A on drawing A; the vertical "5MM" scale bar standing between A and B; the vertical "·5MM" bar at the upper right, beside B; the letter B to the left of drawing B; the "hy.f." label with a leader to the left of drawing C; the letter C to the left of drawing C; and the vertical "·5MM" bar to the right of drawing C. Verified at 4·5–16x.]

[NOTE: the bar between drawings A and B is lettered "5MM", with no leading raised dot, against "·5MM" on the two bars beside B and C; checked at 16x, and the difference is as printed. On all three bars there is no space between the figure and the small-capital "MM".]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE, 161; FIG. 96; × 55; × 31; Totton, 1932, fig. 33; Totton, 1954; Text-figure 97A; text-fig. 97A; 5 mm; 2·5 mm. The decimal point of "2·5" is a raised middle dot. The multiplication signs are saltire crosses.]

[NOTE: "hy.f" in the caption key carries no final stop and is italic, against "hy.f." with one on the drawing; both as printed. The "=" in the caption key is an equals sign of two short parallel rules. The caption's fourth line is the single centred word "gonophore"; that break is preserved. "FIG. 96." is small capitals with a full point after the number, and the species name is italic with the authority roman.]

[NOTE: the species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman. "Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 97A):" carries a printed colon, whereas the other paragraph side-headings in this range are followed by a wide space with no colon; "Posterior nectophore:" also carries one. As printed. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

[NOTE: two small stray ink marks stand clear of the text, one in the outer right margin beside the caption and one in the outer right margin below the last line, as on pages 156–160. Neither is a legible character.]

<<<PAGE pdf=167 file=page_167.txt>>>
[PAGE 162]

162	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Eudoxid phase – unknown.

Like L. subtiloides it is found in water of comparatively low salinity, inshore. Locality: Near Cape Lopez, Gulf of Guinea ('Discovery' Station 277).

A very similar but larger species (anterior nectophore up to 10 mm long) is to be described shortly. It occurs commonly in coastal waters off Vancouver, B.C. The somatocyst is spindle shaped and distended. The ostial end of the prominent lateral ridge turns distad. (see fig. 98). [HANDWRITTEN] dorsad

These three species all occur in coastal waters, and appear to be closely related.

[FIGURE]
A
B
Som.
H
0.	1mm.
1.m.m.

FIG. 97.   A, Lensia leloupi Totton. Polygastric phase anterior nectophore, 'Discovery' St. 277, × 16. The ostial end of the lateral ridge, though scarcely visible, reaches the ostium without turning distad. [HANDWRITTEN] [?dorsad] B, Lensia subtiloides (L. & v. R.) Polygastric phase, Great Barrier Reef, anterior nectophore, × 18. H = hydroecium; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 55C, D).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
FIG. 98.   Lensia sp. aff. leloupi Totton
Lateral view of the anterior nectophore from the coasts of British Columbia, × 5 (after Bigelow (1913) as Diphyes truncata).
[/FIGURE]

Lensia conoidea (Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860)
Plate XXXI, figure 11; text-figure 99A

Diphyes conoidea Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860, 1861
Diphyes truncata Sars, 1846 non D. truncata Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
Lensia truncata Totton, 1932
Lensia conoidea Bigelow & Sears, 1937

Well known since 1846. The name truncata has been used sometimes uncritically for other small Diphids. Moser (1925, p. 154) wrongly cited as synonymous Diphyes fowleri Bigelow, D. subtiloides Lens & van Riemsdijk and D. sieboldii Lochman, 1914 (= Chelophyes appendiculata). Great caution is needed, therefore, in the use of published lists of synonyms of this species. This is an easily recognizable species first well described and figured as Diphyes sp. by Stuwitz (1836) from dead specimens taken in Christianiafjord in May 1835. Sars (1846) gave a wrong reference to this paper.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 99A; see also Bigelow & Sears, 1937, fig. 33):   It reaches a length of 20 mm, is of firm substance and has five longitudinal ridges. The distal end of the dorsal ridge is prolonged on to a small lip or projection distal to the general level of the ostium. The base was well

[NOTE: this page carries two manuscript corrections in the same hand, in dark ink. In the third paragraph of the body text the printed word "distad" is struck through with a single horizontal stroke and "dorsad" is written in the margin to its right, after "(see fig. 98).". In the caption of text-fig. 97 the printed "distad" is likewise struck through and "dorsad" written immediately after it, running into the right margin. The struck-through printed word is kept in place in both, followed by the manuscript word in a [HANDWRITTEN] marker. The marginal "dorsad" beside the body text is clearly legible at 8x; the one in the caption is smeared where it crosses the strike-through, so it is given as "[?dorsad]" — the same word in the same hand is my reading, but I cannot read every letter of it.]

[NOTE: the middle third of the page carries two text-figures side by side: text-fig. 97, two drawings (A and B) with their scale bars and a seven-line caption, occupying the left two-thirds; and text-fig. 98, a single larger drawing with a five-line caption, occupying the right third. Following the protocol for column layout each figure is given whole, left before right. Text-fig. 98's drawing begins higher on the page than text-fig. 97's and its caption lower.]

[NOTE: text-fig. 97's lettering, given top to bottom and left to right: the letter A at the head of drawing A; the letter B at the head of drawing B; "Som." with a leader at the upper right of drawing B; "H" with a leader at the lower right of drawing B; then the two horizontal scale bars beneath the drawings. The bar under A is lettered "0." at its left end and "1mm." at its right, given here on one line separated by a tab, as the protocol directs for a lettered bar. The bar under B is lettered "1.m.m." at its right end only, with nothing at the left. All the drawing lettering is in a sloped script hand. Text-fig. 98's drawing carries no lettering at all. Verified at 16x.]

[NOTE: the bar under A reads "1mm." with no stops between the letters, whereas the bar under B reads "1.m.m." with a stop after each; both as printed, and both differ from the "2.m.m." of text-fig. 88 and the "2.mm." of text-fig. 89.]

[NOTE: numerals verified digit by digit: 162; 'Discovery' Station 277; 10 mm; fig. 98; FIG. 97, 'Discovery' St. 277, × 16, × 18, Totton, 1954, fig. 55C, D; FIG. 98, × 5, Bigelow (1913); (Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860); Plate XXXI, figure 11; text-figure 99A; Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860, 1861; Sars, 1846; Quoy & Gaimard, 1827; Totton, 1932; Bigelow & Sears, 1937; since 1846; Moser (1925, p. 154); Lochman, 1914; Stuwitz (1836); May 1835; Sars (1846); text-fig. 99A; Bigelow & Sears, 1937, fig. 33; 20 mm. The zeros throughout are old-style figures at x-height, so "10", "20", "1860" and "1846" read as "1o", "2o" and so on; they are zeros. The multiplication signs are saltire crosses.]

[NOTE: "Kefferstein" is printed with a double-f ligature in both the species heading and the first synonymy line, checked at 16x; it is not the "Keferstein" spelling used elsewhere in this monograph. "Diphids" is spelled without a y. "Christianiafjord" is one word. The "=" in "(= Chelophyes appendiculata)" and in the fig. 97 caption key are equals signs of two short parallel rules.]

[NOTE: the dash in "Eudoxid phase – unknown." is an en rule. "'Discovery'" is in roman within single quotation marks in both the text and the caption. "see also" is italic. "Locality:" and "Anterior nectophore (…):" carry a thin space before the colon in the printing, not reproduced here. The species heading is bold italic with the authority in roman parentheses; the four synonymy lines are set in smaller type with the taxon names italic, and their line breaks are preserved. No printed square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=168 file=page_168.txt>>>
[PAGE 163]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	163

figured by Bigelow & Sears (op. cit., figs. 29, 30 and 31 – not fig. 32). The length of the somatocyst of Sar's original specimens was about 45% of that of the total length of the nectophore. The right-hand (sensu Bigelow & Sears) wing of the mouth-plate overlaps (is dorsal to) the other.

Posterior nectophore (see Bigelow & Sears, op. cit., fig. 34; non 35):   May reach a length of 18 mm The apical end of the nectosac (diverticulum, Totton, 1932, p. 367) extends anteriorly beyond the entry of the pedicular canal. There are five longitudinal ridges. The basal wing or mouth-plate is indented in the mid-line. The left lobe is a little longer than the right. Specimens from the Irish Sea, the Indian Ocean and 'Discovery' Station 100C differ from the one figured by Bigelow & Sears (op. cit., fig. 35) in that the articular surface of the right hydroecial wing of this figure 35 is square (see Totton, 1954, fig. 56) and not acute-angled as it is in L. fowleri.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXI, fig. 11)

Well known from association, in catches, with the polygastric phase. First figured by Sars, it was figured again by Moser (1925) and described by her on page 162. But since Moser confused other species with conoidea this account should be checked. The eudoxid is relatively large, has a conical apex and a long phyllocyst. But systematists have not so far attempted to define the differences between the eudoxis of all the various species of Lensia. The gonophores, which are up to 4·5 mm long, have a mouth-plate 0·35 mm long with a slightly convex distal border. They are enantiomorphic, since either the right or the left hydroecial ridge may be the deeper. There is a corresponding difference in the twisting of the hydroecium.

[FIGURE]
A

B

FIG. 99.   A, Lensia conoidea (Kefferstein & Ehlers)
lateral view of the anterior nectophore from Thor St. 36,  × 5.2 (after Bigelow
& Sears, 1937, fig. 27); B, Lensia multicristata (Moser)—lateral view of the anterior
nectophore, Thor St. 217,  × 7.1 (after Bigelow & Sears, 1937, fig. 40)
[/FIGURE]

<<<PAGE pdf=169 file=page_169.txt>>>
[PAGE 164]

164	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Sars (1846, p. 44) described how the eudoxids broke loose from the stem and swam freely.

The saccus of the tentillum was figured by Kefferstein and Ehlers (1861, Taf. III, fig. 10). The figure shows that there is a pair of lateral groups of four larger nematocysts near its base measuring about 53μ × 7μ.

For the benefit of any field worker in the Mediterranean, the eudoxid of this species may be distinguished from the common eudoxid of Chelophyes appendiculata by its larger size; the fact that the bract of the eudoxid of conoidea lacks the distinct cavity found in appendiculata, the fact that the gonophore of conoidea has a truncate articulating end and lacks the long peduncle of appendiculata.

Colour:   Gastrozooids and tentilla sacs are rose-red.

Progression:   Sars recorded that the two nectophores provided rapid propulsion. Each contraction propelled the animal forward for from 10–12·5 cm. When stationary, the tentacles are relaxed and extended.

Lensia multicristata (Moser, 1925)
Text-figure 99B

Galeolaria multicristata Moser, 1925
Diphyes bigelowi Browne, 1926
Lensia profunda Totton, 1936 nomen nudum

A comparatively large, common and easily recognizable seven-ridged Lensia well described and superbly figured by Bigelow (Bigelow & Sears, 1937, fig. 40–44). Some of the ridges may escape observation in unstained material (see Bigelow 1911b, Pl. 12, fig. 2, as Muggiaea kochii). The last review was that of Bigelow & Sears (1937).

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 99B):   Seven longitudinal ridges. The ventro-laterals reach neither apex nor basal margin. The laterals terminate slightly above the basal margin. A small hydroecial cavity lying below the level of the ostium. Basal margin of ventral facet rounded. Both halves of mouth-plate have a small projection at the inner angle. Somatocyst (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937, p. 58, fig. 43) 'slim, fusiform or linear, usually with a more or less definitely defined and thread-like stalk'. Its length equals about 40–45% of the length of the nectophore measured from apex to ostium.

Posterior nectophore (see Leloup, 1934, p. 34, fig. 8):   Five longitudinal ridges, the laterals not reaching the ostial margin. Hydroecium shallow distally. Mouth-plate wide, short rounded with a slight median notch. At the proximal end of the right hydroecial fold there is a small tongue-shaped projection. Lateral radial canals follow a somewhat sigmoid course.

Eudoxid phase – undescribed.

A large number of new records were published by Totton (1954, p. 11[?2]).

[NOTE: in the line "Totton (1954, p. 11...)" the final digit of the page number is
crossed by a heavy stray ink stroke (a hair or fibre on the scanner glass) and cannot
be read with certainty; "2" is the best reading. A small isolated stray mark also sits
in the blank space after the closing full stop of that sentence.]

Lensia hunter Totton, 1941
Text-figure 101B, C (p. 166)

Another seven-ridged Lensia easily separated from the last by its somatocyst. It has been found again on many occasions since first described.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 101B):   The dorso-lateral ridges do not meet the ostial margin. The ventro-laterals do not reach the apex, but meet the lateral edges of the mouth-plate. The basal wall of the hydroecium on the ventral side of the pedicel of the somatocyst curves off gradually to the

<<<PAGE pdf=170 file=page_170.txt>>>
[PAGE 165]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	165

ventral facet. The somatocyst is generally bilobed and asymmetrical (text-fig. 101C). It reaches a length of about 10 mm.

Posterior nectophore:   Not recognizable yet.	Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[NOTE: the line above sets two separate items side by side on a single line — "Posterior
nectophore: Not recognizable yet." at the left margin and "Eudoxid phase – not identified."
at the right. They are given here left then right, separated by a tab. The same layout
recurs in the last line of the page.]

Lensia campanella (Moser, 1925)
Plate XXXI, figure 4

Galeolaria campanella Moser, 1925

Specimens are small, and the apical end is twisted (see below).

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 100A):   Up to 3·3 mm in length. Apex twisted. Mouth-plate very small indeed, divided. Longitudinal ridges hardly visible. The ventro-basal facet shows hardly any hydroecial cavity, and slopes off at about 45° into the ventral facet. The somatocyst is short, oblique and club-shaped. The musculature of the nectosac is nearly always well preserved.

[FIGURE]
1MM

·5MM

A

B

FIG. 100.   Lensia campanella (Moser). Polygastric phase, Gt. Barrier Reef
A, left lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 30; B, right lateral view of the
posterior nectophore, × 46 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 35)
[/FIGURE]

M. Claude Carré of the Station Zoologique, Villefranche, has shown me sketches, which I hope he will publish, of several specimens of this species taken at Villefranche in November/December 1962. When alive the anterior nectophores did not show twisting of the apex; and both nectophores and gonophores had a fairly regular pattern of orange-red ectodermal pigment spots, three on the left side only of the anterior nectophore – one of them near the apex – and several in the ostial region. There were six or seven on the posterior nectophore, and an unrecorded number on the gonophore. They are useful field marks.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 100B).	Eudoxid phase – unidentified.

[NOTE: in the phrase "an unrecorded number on the gonophore" the word "the" carries a
short horizontal stray ink stroke across the ascender of the "h"; the word itself is
clearly "the". The scale-bar labels inside the figure are set in small display capitals;
the "1" of "1MM" is a bare vertical stroke.]

<<<PAGE pdf=171 file=page_171.txt>>>
[PAGE 166]

166	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
1MM

1MM

1MM.

A

B

C

FIG. 101.   A, Lensia cossack Totton polygastric phase; lateral view of anterior nectophore
B, C, Lensia hunter Totton (p. 164)
B, lateral view of anterior nectophore; C, ventral view of somatocyst (from Totton, 1941, figs. 8, 11, 12)
[/FIGURE]

Lensia cossack Totton, 1941

Diphyes subtiloides Browne, 1926

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 101A):   Up to 11·6 mm in length. Four longitudinal folds, that enable the nectosac to contract and expand, divide the rounded exterior surface into four rounded longitudinal ridges, a dorsal, a pair of laterals and a ventral. There is a very slight median crest on the dorsal, and a pair of lateral vestigial ones may be present as well. The basal facet is horse-shoe shaped, and has a slight notch on the ventral side. There is virtually no hydroecial cavity. The mouth-plates are very short. The somatocyst is ovoid, oblique and measures, when well preserved, one-third of the length of the nectophore, the apex of which is not twisted.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Lensia challengeri Totton, 1954
Text-figure 102A, B (p. 166)

A form closely related to L. fowleri and L. hardy, occurring very abundantly off the Californian coast (see Totton, 1954, p. 111). The specimen figured by Totton (1941, fig. 13, as L. hotspur) belongs to L. challengeri.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 7·5 mm in length. Five longitudinal ridges. Somatocyst spherical, egg-shaped or flattened, lying at level of ostium. The hydroecial cavity does not extend below the ventral side. Baso-ventral margin entire. Mouth-plate on left (in dorsal view) much broader than the other (text-fig. 102B). Both halves of mouth-plate are much less deep than those of L. fowleri and L. hardy.

Posterior nectophore:   Known but undescribed.	Eudoxid phase – known but undescribed.

[NOTE: the last line of the page sets two separate items side by side — "Posterior
nectophore: Known but undescribed." at the left margin and "Eudoxid phase – known but
undescribed." at the right; given here left then right, separated by a tab.]

[NOTE: the three scale-bar labels inside the figure are hand-lettered small capitals; in
each the "1" is a bare vertical stroke (the third, beside C, has top and bottom serifs and
is followed by a full stop). The bar beside C is graduated with ten tick marks. A small
stray ink mark sits above the line-end after "belongs" in the Lensia challengeri paragraph.]

<<<PAGE pdf=172 file=page_172.txt>>>
[PAGE 167]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	167

Lensia hotspur Totton, 1941
Text-figure 102C–E

L. hotspur Totton, 1954 (Non L. hotspur Totton, 1941 figure 13 (= L. challengeri) )

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 102C, D, E):   Up to 4·5 mm long, five-ridged, with or without a shallow hydroecium that lies below the level of the ostium. The somatocyst is oblique, ovate and very shortly stalked. In Red Sea specimens the base of the somatocyst sometimes projects down slightly below the baso-lateral margin, but there are intermediates. In 1954, when more material became available I excluded the specimen shown earlier (1941, fig. 13) from Carnegie Cruise VII, station 36 (see L. challengeri, p. 176).

Posterior nectophore:   There is a rounded notch in the distal edge of the mouth-plate. The upper (articular) end of the left ventral wing is not square but angular.

L. hotspur occurs side by side with L. subtiloides in the Red Sea. L. hotspur can be distinguished at once by the fact that there is practically no pedicel to its relatively shorter somatocyst.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

I feel some doubt about the validity of this species, but the authors have not sent me specimens to check.

[NOTE: the sentence beginning "I feel some doubt..." and its run-on word "check" are struck
through by a hand-drawn horizontal line across both printed lines (a reader's annotation,
not printed rule); the word "check" is also underlined and a short stray stroke precedes it
in the left margin. The printed text under the line is fully legible and is given above.]

[FIGURE]
A

0	3mm

B

1 mm.

0

C

0	1 mm.

C1

2.mm.

0

D

0	1m.m.

E

M.b.l.

Som	C.pa	C.ped

FIG. 102.   Lensia challengeri Totton. Polygastric phase, Challenger St. 104 (1950)
A, lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 12; B, dorsal view of mouth-plate, × 40

Lensia hotspur Totton. Polygastric phase, Gulf of Aqaba
C, anterior nectophore, antero-lateral view of the base, × 40; C′, dorsal view of the mouth-plate; D, lateral view, × 12; E, lateral view of the base, × 25
C.pa × pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; M.b.1 = baso-lateral margin; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 54).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: figure lettering is hand-drawn. In the scale bars the digit "1" is a bare stroke,
so the labels read "3mm", "1 mm.", "1 mm.", "2.mm." and "1m.m." as given. The panel
labelled "C1" on the drawing (a C followed by a small full-height stroke) is called "C′"
in the printed caption; both forms are given as they appear. In the caption line of
abbreviations the first separator is printed as a multiplication sign, "C.pa × pallial
canal", where the others are "="; this is as printed. "M.b.1" in the caption uses an
old-style numeral one, while the corresponding label on the drawing reads "M.b.l."
A short vertical stray mark stands in the right-hand margin beside the lower part of
the figure.]

<<<PAGE pdf=173 file=page_173.txt>>>
[PAGE 168]

168	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[NOTE: page layout — full-measure text at the head, then a middle band in which text-figure
103 with its caption occupies a narrow left column and the Lensia subtilis text occupies the
right column, then full-measure text again at the foot. Per protocol the middle band is given
left column first (the figure), then right column. Two lines of the head block also set two
items side by side across the measure; these are given with tab separators.]

Lensia tottoni Daniel, A. & Daniel, R., 1963
Text-figure 103

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 103):   Closely resembling that of L. hotspur, but with the following differences: The lateral ridges do not meet the ostium. The baso-ventral ridges are not quite so oblique as in L. hotspur, but almost at right angles to the ventrals. Only five specimens were recorded, but in all of them the base of the somatocyst lay well below the baso-ventral ridges, so that there was no hydroecium.	Posterior nectophore:   Not known.	Eudoxid phase – not identified.

I feel some doubt about the validity of this species, but the authors have not sent me specimens to check.

[FIGURE]
0	1mm

FIG. 103.   Lensia tottoni Daniel & Daniel.
Polygastric phase, Bay of Bengal
Lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 2
(after Daniel & Daniel, 1963).
[/FIGURE]

Lensia subtilis (Chun, 1886)
Text-figure 104, 105

Monophyes irregularis Chun, 1885
Monophyes gracilis Chun, 1885
Diphyes subtilis Chun, 1886

A very abundant species at Villefranche, characterized when alive at all stages and in both phases by its yellow pigment.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (see Chun, 1885, Taf. II, fig. 3; Moser, 1925, Taf. IV, figs. 5–8; and text-fig. 104): Length up to 11 mm. Four longitudinal folds(inwards) divide the external surface when contracted into a dorsal, a pair of lateral and a ventro-longitudinal fold (uncrested ridges). The divided mouth-plate is small, each half being rounded distally. The basal, articular facet is oblique to the long axis, and is rounded off ventrally into the ventral facet. The best field-mark is the globular, long-stalked somatocyst. The stalk, in Mediterranean specimens, measures only 0·025 mm in diameter. The nectophore-bud often found at the base of the stem is probably the bud of an anterior nectophore replacement. It can grow from bud to active nectophore in 12 hours.

Posterior nectophore (see Chun, 1885, Taf. II, fig. 5, as Monophyes gracilis):   About same length as anterior one, truncate proximally and five-ridged. The hydroecial cavity shallows out distally, where there is an inconspicuous, rounded mouth-plate. The lateral radial canals are sigmoid and not looped.

Eudoxid phase

Bract (text-fig. 105C–E): Length little more than 1 mm, rounded, with shallow basal cavity. Phyllocyst short, club-shaped.

Gonophore (text-fig. 105A, B):   About 2·25 mm long. Hydroecial folds in proximal part only. Tip of manubrium yellow in colour (a useful field mark when making breeding experiments with diphyids in this region). The female gonophore bears twenty or thirty eggs. The gonophores become detached and swim freely.

[NOTE: in "Four longitudinal folds(inwards)" there is no space between "folds" and the
opening parenthesis, and the final "s" of "folds" is set heavier than the surrounding type
and touches the parenthesis; it is nonetheless clearly an "s". In "rounded off ventrally
into the ventral facet" the word "the" carries a short stray ink stroke across the ascender
of the "h", as it does elsewhere in this signature; the word is clearly "the".]

<<<PAGE pdf=174 file=page_174.txt>>>
[PAGE 169]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	169

[NOTE: the whole page is occupied by two text-figures with their captions; there is no body
text. All lettering within the figures is hand-drawn. Labels are listed below in reading
order, top to bottom and left to right within each figure.]

[FIGURE]
A

Som.

C.ped

Som.	1 mm	0

C.pa	Pl.M.

B

Som.	1mm	0

C.pa	Pl.M.

C

1 mm.	0

D

FIG. 104.   Lensia subtilis (Chun). Polygastric phase.   A, anterior nectophores, × 21, Gulf of Aqaba; B–D, 'Discovery'
St. 1587. B, × 21; C, × 18; D, × 11  C.pa = pallial canal; Pl.m = mouth-plate (from Totton, 1954, fig. 57).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
Ov.

H

Ns

Vel.

A

B

Phc.

Br.

T.

Ga

Gz

C

E

1 mm.

0

Br.

Phc.

Ga

T.

Bg.

Gz

D

H

FIG. 105.   Lensia subtilis (Chun). Eudoxid phase, Villefranche
A, B, female gonophore, × 24; C, latero-ventral view of a young eudoxid, × 24; D, E, bract, × 25
Br = bract;  Go = gonophore;  Gz = gastrozooid;  H = hydroecium;  Ns = nectosac;
Ov = ovary;  Phc = phyllocyst;  T = tentacle;  V = velum (from Totton, 1954, fig. 59).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: some drawn labels differ from the abbreviations listed in the captions. The gonophore
is lettered "Ga" on the drawings of fig. 105 but is listed as "Go" in that caption; the velum
is lettered "Vel." on the drawing but listed as "V"; the mouth-plate is lettered "Pl.M." on
the drawings of fig. 104 but listed as "Pl.m" in that caption. All are given as they appear.
In the "Gz" beside E the "z" is drawn without a bottom stroke and closely resembles a "7";
the same abbreviation beside C is drawn normally. In panel B of fig. 104 the initial "C" of
the "C.pa" label is incompletely inked and prints as a bare hook. In the caption of fig. 104
there is no punctuation between "D, × 11" and "C.pa = pallial canal"; this is as printed.
A small stray mark lies in the right-hand margin level with panel C of fig. 105, and another
in the blank space to the left of the "1 mm." scale of panel D.]

<<<PAGE pdf=175 file=page_175.txt>>>
[PAGE 170]

170	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Lensia subtilis var. chuni (nom-nov.)

L. subtilis var. Totton, 1954, page 114

I gave figures (1954, fig. 57B, C, D) of some specimens that had shorter somatocyst pedicels than usual. These pedicels are, however, longer than in L. meteori. The general shape of the anterior nectophore resembles that of subtilis rather than of meteori.

Lensia meteori (Leloup, 1934)
Text-figure 107

Galetta meteori Leloup, 1934
Lensia meteori Totton, 1954

This species has been found on many occasions since Leloup described it.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 107):   Up to 5 mm in length, resembling that of L. subtilis but the 'basal facet' is almost vertical, the mouth-plates much larger (see Leloup, 1934, fig. 6C); the pedicel of the somatocyst very short, and the somatocyst itself not globular but laterally produced.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown (if any).

Because the anterior nectophore so much resembles that of subtilis I refer the species to the genus Lensia in spite of the fact that no check on the lateral radial canals of the posterior nectophore (if any) can be made.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[FIGURE]
FIG. 106.   Lensia achilles Totton
Lateral view of the holotype anterior nectophore from 'Discovery' St. 85, × 5 (from Totton, 1941, fig. 6).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: text-figure 106 carries no lettering on the drawing itself; the plain vertical rule to
its right is an unlabelled scale bar. The caption is set as a narrow block under the drawing
and is joined into continuous prose above. Several small stray specks and short strokes are
scattered over the blank areas of this page (right-hand margin, and to the right of the
figure); none of them is type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=176 file=page_176.txt>>>
[PAGE 171]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	171

[FIGURE]
A	B	C

Som.	Som.	D

0.5.mm.	C.circ.	0.5.mm.	Som.

H

0	0	Gz

C.ped

Som.

1 mm.

0

C.pa

E	Pl.M.	F	Som.

H

Gz	G

FIG. 107.   Lensia meteori Leloup. Polygastric phase
A, B, D, somatocysts of anterior nectophores from the Adriatic; C, ventral view of a somatocyst from Port Sudan; E, F, anterior nectophores from S.W. Ireland; G, from 'Discovery' St. 1587. A, × 47; B, × 38; C, D, × 20; E, F, G, × 20
C.cir = circular canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; Gz = gastrozooid; C.pa = pallial canal; H = hydroecium; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 60).
[/FIGURE]

Lensia achilles Totton, 1941
Text-figure 106 (see p. 170)

A five-ridged, deep-water form, coloured deep or bright orange in life.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 106):   Five complete ridges, the basal ends the of laterals bending dorsad. Vault of hydroecium level with the ostium, with a deep notch on the baso-ventral margin. Somatocysts spindle-shaped. The nectophore shown by Bigelow (1913, fig. 2) almost certainly belongs to this species, but his descriptions of the two nectophores may refer to more than one species.

Posterior nectophore:   The nectophore shown by Bigelow (1913, Pl. 6, figs. 3, 4) may belong to this species.

Eudoxid phase – undescribed.

[NOTE: the whole upper half of the page is text-figure 107, whose seven panels A–G are drawn
across the measure with hand-lettered labels. The labels above are listed panel by panel in
reading order, top row (A, B, C, D) then bottom row (E, F, G), with tab separators where
labels stand side by side; the drawings themselves are not described. The two scale bars in
the top row are lettered "0.5.mm." with a full stop between the numeral and the unit, as
given. The circular-canal label on the drawing reads "C.circ." while the caption lists it as
"C.cir", and the mouth-plate label on the drawing reads "Pl.M." though it is not listed in
this caption at all; both are given as they appear.]

[NOTE: in the Lensia achilles description the phrase "the basal ends the of laterals" is
printed with "the" and "of" transposed. This is as printed and has not been corrected.]

<<<PAGE pdf=177 file=page_177.txt>>>
[PAGE 172]

172	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Lensia lelouveteau Totton, 1941
Text-figures 108, 109

Lensia multicristata forme grimaldii Leloup, 1934

A very distinctive, rather rare little multicristate, mid-water species which somewhat resembles L. meteori in general outline and shape of somatocyst. Dr. Leloup very kindly allowed me to examine his 'Meteor' specimens in 1940. It has been taken in many 'Discovery' tow nettings.

[NOTE: text-figures 108 and 109 stand side by side across the page with their captions
below them; the caption of 108 sits under panels A and B at the left and centre, that of 109
under the single drawing at the right. They are given below in that order.]

[FIGURE]
1MM

A	B

FIG. 108.   Lensia lelouveteau Totton. Polygastric phase
Anterior nectophores, ventral view, × 10, from Meteor Sts. 277, 246, 1,000–800 m (from Totton, 1941, fig. 24)
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
FIG. 109.   Lensia lelouveteau Totton
Polygastric phase
Anterior nectophore, dorsal view, × 17, from 'Meteor' St. 246 (from Totton, 1941, fig. 23, part).
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (see Leloup, 1934, fig. 9; and text-figs. 108, 109):   The crests, not all of which reach the apex, are in five groups, three or more dorsal, seven or eight in each lateral group, and from four to six ventro-lateral ones. There is a cross-ridge (velar) about 0·75 mm above the ostium. The somatocyst is squat and kidney-shaped. The ventro-basal margins of the hydroecium are well rounded.

Posterior nectophore:   (If any) unknown.	Eudoxid phase – unknown.

Lensia reticulata Totton, 1954
Text-figure 110

A rare, small, multistriate form with cross-connecting ridges, and a velar ridge about 0·5 mm above the ostium. I am satisfied that the cross ridges are not due to shrinkage.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 110):   About 2·75 mm in length.

The hydroecium is deep, with a notch on the ventral side. The baso-ventral margins rounded angular. The somatocyst is short and ovoid in shape. The horizontal velar ridge connects up the basal ends of half-a-dozen longitudinal ridges on either side as in L. exeter.

Posterior nectophore:   (If any) unknown.	Eudoxid phase – unknown.

[NOTE: the two lines reading "Posterior nectophore: (If any) unknown." and "Eudoxid phase –
unknown." each set the two items side by side across the measure; they are given left then
right with a tab between. The only lettering inside text-fig. 108 is the panel letters "A"
and "B" and the scale-bar label, which is hand-drawn small capitals in which the "1" is a
bare stroke: "1MM". Text-fig. 109 carries no lettering on the drawing; the plain vertical
rule to the left of it is an unlabelled scale bar.]

<<<PAGE pdf=178 file=page_178.txt>>>
[PAGE 173]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	173

[NOTE: page layout — text-figure 110 with its caption fills the upper half of the page across
the full measure; below it the Lensia hardy text stands in a left column with text-figure 111
and its caption in a right column. Per protocol the left column is given before the right.
All lettering inside the figures is hand-drawn and is listed panel by panel in reading order;
the drawings themselves are not described.]

[FIGURE]
A	B

Som.	Ns

1. mm.	C	D

H	C.rad.lat

Ost.	Dorsal

1 m.m	Ventral

H	Som.

Ns.

Som.	Ost.	H

Pl.M.	Som.

H	F	H

Pl.M.	0	1 mm	G

E

FIG. 110.   Lensia reticulata Totton. Polygastric phase, anterior nectophores, 'Discovery' St. 1585, 1,400–700 m
A, D, F, the whole, the apex and the base of a larger specimen; B, E, H, C, G, the whole, two views of the base and two of the apex of a smaller specimen. A, × 9; B, × 18; C–H, × 29
H = hydroecium; Som = somatocyst; Ns = nectosac; C.rad.lat = lateral radial canal; Ost = ostium; Pl.M = mouth-plate (from Totton, 1954, fig. 61).
[/FIGURE]

Lensia hardy Totton, 1941
Text-figure 111

A five-ridged form closely related to both L. fowleri and L. challengeri.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 14·5 mm in length. Hydroecium about 1 mm deep, extending below the base of the somatocyst, lying at the level of the ostium. No baso-dorsal tooth. Mouth-plates more than half the diameter of the ostium in length. There is an extensive notch in the baso-ventral ridge.

Posterior nectophore:   Known but undescribed.

Eudoxid phase – known but undescribed.

[FIGURE]
1MM

FIG. 111.   Lensia hardy Totton
Lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 5, 'Discovery' St. 672 (from Totton, 1941, fig. 10).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: within text-fig. 110 the panel letters and the labels attached to them are listed
above with tab separators where they stand side by side; the two scale bars of the upper row
are lettered "1. mm." (vertical, beside B) and "1 m.m" (horizontal, under A) and the one in
the lower row "0 ... 1 mm" (under F). The panel letter "C" carries a small superscript tick
which appears to be a stray fleck rather than a prime. The scale-bar label of text-fig. 111
is hand-drawn small capitals in which the "1" is a bare stroke: "1MM".]

<<<PAGE pdf=179 file=page_179.txt>>>
[PAGE 174]

174	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Lensia fowleri (Bigelow, 1911)
Text-figures 112, 113

Diphyes fowleri Bigelow, 1911a

For a good figure see Bigelow, 1911a, plate 28, figure 5.

A common five-ridged form whose globular somatocyst lies below the level of the ostium; first described from the Bay of Biscay, and taken in the Mediterranean (Bigelow & Sears, 1937, p. 139) at the rate of 250 per cu. metre of water. It resembles in general both L. hardy and L. challengeri, but is distinguished at once by the position of the somatocyst.

[NOTE: the middle of the page carries two text-figures side by side — fig. 112, a single
drawing at the far left with its caption in a narrow column beneath it, and fig. 113, whose
five panels A–E occupy the centre and right with their caption beneath. Per protocol the
left figure is given first, then the right.]

[FIGURE]
FIG. 112.   Lensia fowleri (Bigelow)
Polygastric phase
Lateral view of an anterior nectophore, × 16 (after Totton & Fraser, 1955).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
A	B

C

D	E

FIG. 113.   Lensia fowleri (Bigelow). Polygastric phase. Anterior nectophores
A, lateral view of a specimen from the Bay of Biscay, × 2.5; B, basal part of another specimen, 7.6 mm long; C, basal part of a large specimen, showing the bud of the posterior nectophore; D, ventral view; E, dorsal view of the specimen shown in B (after Bigelow & Sears, 1937, figs. 36–39)
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-figs. 112, 113):   Five longitudinal ridges, the bases of the laterals bending

[NOTE: text-fig. 112 carries no lettering on the drawing; the small square bracket to its
left is an unlabelled scale bar. The only lettering in text-fig. 113 is the panel letters
A–E, listed above in reading order with tab separators where two stand on the same level.
Note that the caption of fig. 113 uses full stops as decimal points ("× 2.5", "7.6 mm")
where the body text of this monograph normally uses a raised dot; this is as printed.
The last line of the page is a broken sentence continuing on to the next page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=180 file=page_180.txt>>>
[PAGE 175]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	175

ventrad. The ventro-basal area extends well below the ostium, and the globular somatocyst contained in it lies wholly below the level of the ostium, its pedicular canal descending almost vertically. There is no baso-dorsal tooth.

Posterior nectophore:   Well known, but not described. About three-quarters the length of the anterior one. The apico-ventral corner of the right hydroecial wing, where it articulates with the anterior nectophore, is triangular in optical section as shown by Bigelow & Sears (1937 for L. conoidea) and not square as shown by me (1954, text-fig. 56 for L. conoidea). It slightly overhangs the hydroecium in the form of a rounded tooth.

Eudoxid phase:   Not described hitherto. The elongated bract has a rounded tip. Only one of the sutural ridges is well marked. There is a notch in the margin of the neck-shield where it passes over one of the hydroecial ridges. The bract is about 4·5 mm long and nearly 2 mm in greatest diameter. The head-piece is twice the length of the neck-shield and its somatocyst is globular. The gonophores which are elongated, up to 5 mm in length and 1·3 mm in diameter, have no mouth-plate, whereas in L. conoidea one is present. The females bear about sixteen eggs. This description is based on specimens associated with those of the polygastric phase taken by Dr T. Gamulin in the Adriatic.

Lensia havock Totton, 1941
Text-figure 114

A seven-ridged form with a very deep hydroecium. It was taken in at least ten closing nets by 'Discovery' between 635 m and 300 m.

[FIGURE]
1MM.	1MM

FIG. 114.   Lensia havock Totton
Lateral and ventral views of an anterior nectophore, × 5, 'Discovery' Sts. 1917, 100C, 1,400–100 m (from Totton, 1941, figs. 17, 18)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: text-figure 114 shows two drawings side by side, each with its own scale bar; the only
lettering is the two hand-drawn scale-bar labels, in which the "1" is a bare stroke — the
left one carries a trailing full stop ("1MM.") and the right one does not ("1MM"). Neither
drawing is lettered A or B. Several small stray specks lie in the blank margins of the page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=181 file=page_181.txt>>>
[PAGE 176]

176	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 114):   Up to 16·5 mm in length. Seven complete ridges, the ventro-laterals bending ventrad basally to run onto the mouth-plate. The hydroecium which is very deep, extends well above the level of the ostium, and the ventral wall has a pronounced slit that extends nearly up to its upper limit. The somatocyst is short, spindle-shaped or club-shaped.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Lensia exeter Totton, 1941
Text-figure 115

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 115):   Up to 9·5 mm in length, multistriate, five groups of three ridges. A transverse one on ostial ridge, distant 1 mm above ostium, connects the basal end of the lateral ridges of each side and runs down to the ostial margin near the dorsal side. The somatocyst is very long and spindle-shaped. The deep hydroecium is open on the ventral side.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[FIGURE]
1MM	1MM	1MM

A	B	C

FIG. 115.   Lensia exeter Totton
Lateral, dorsal and ventral views of an anterior nectophore, × 9, from 'Discovery' St. 675, 750–500 m (from Totton, 1941, figs. 1–3)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: text-figure 115 shows three drawings side by side, lettered A, B and C, each with its
own scale bar; the scale-bar labels are hand-drawn, with a bare stroke for the "1" and small
capitals for "MM". The scale-bar labels stand above their panel letters, so they are listed
above as a row before the row of panel letters.]

<<<PAGE pdf=182 file=page_182.txt>>>
[PAGE 177]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	177

[FIGURE]
C

1MM

D

1MM

1MM

A

B

1MM

FIG. 116.   Lensia hostile Totton
A, lateral view of an anterior nectophore, × 5·5, 'Discovery' St. 1743, 2,100–1,150 m; B, base of the same, × 10;
C, D, ventral views of the base of an anterior nectophore and of the hydroecium and somatocyst, × 5, 'Discovery' St.
1571, 1,400–1,000 m (from Totton, 1941, figs. 20–22)
[/FIGURE]

Lensia hostile Totton, 1941
Text-figure 116

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 116):   Up to 15·5 mm in length. Multistriate. There is a dorsal group of three or four longitudinal ridges cut off from reaching the ostial margin by two converging grooves; two dorso-lateral groups of three or four complete ridges; and two ventro-lateral groups of three or four incomplete ridges. The hydroecium is deep, with an open slit on the ventral side. The somatocyst is heart-shaped, apex uppermost.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.	Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[NOTE: the last line of the page sets two separate items side by side — "Posterior
nectophore: Unknown." at the left margin and "Eudoxid phase – not identified." at the
right; given here left then right, separated by a tab.]

[NOTE: the four scale-bar labels inside the figure are hand-lettered small capitals reading
"1MM", the "1" being a bare vertical stroke with serifs. The panel letters A, B, C, D are
hand-lettered. A curved hand-drawn ink stroke runs across the first caption line over
"1743, 2,100", and a similar short stroke crosses "hydroecium" in the second caption line;
both are reader's annotations, not printed rules, and the printed text beneath is legible.]

<<<PAGE pdf=183 file=page_183.txt>>>
[PAGE 178]

178	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Lensia grimaldi Leloup, 1933
Text-figure 117

L. grimaldi Totton, 1941

A midwater form.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Multistriate with a partial (dorsal region) ostial ridge. There is a dorsal ridge (or group) with a (sometimes a third incomplete one present) pair of longitudinal crests (see Totton, 1941, fig. 29); pair of lateral ridges (or group) with a pair of crests on each; and a ventral group of four crests. The bases of the dorso-lateral ridges run down dorsad to near the mid-dorsal point of the ostial margin. Just short of this point they join an incomplete (basal part of) dorsal ridge. The hydroecium is deep, not rising much above the ostial level, with a well rounded ventro-basal margin, and open ventrally. The somatocyst is short and club-shaped.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[FIGURE]
1MM

A

1MM

B

1MM

C

FIG. 117.   Lensia grimaldi (Leloup)
Dorsal, lateral and ventral views of an anterior nectophore, × 9, 'Discovery' St. 282 (from Totton, 1941, figs. 26–28)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the three scale-bar labels inside the figure are hand-lettered small capitals reading
"1MM", the "1" being a bare vertical stroke with serifs; the panel letters A, B, C are
hand-lettered. In the running head a short stray ink stroke crosses the second "O" of
"SIPHONOPHORA", giving it the appearance of "Ø"; the printed letter is "O". A stray ink
mark also sits over the "m" of "grimaldi" in the heading.]

<<<PAGE pdf=184 file=page_184.txt>>>
[PAGE 179]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	179

[FIGURE]
1MM

FIG. 118.   Lensia ajax Totton
Dorsal view of an anterior nectophore, × 17,
'Discovery' St. 282 (from Totton, 1941, fig. 4).
[/FIGURE]

Lensia ajax Totton, 1941
Text-figure 118

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 118):   About 8 mm in length, with five groups of three (sometimes two and occasionally four) longitudinal ridges, without oral ridge. One of the dorsal group of three ridges is often incomplete basally or absent. A rudimentary ridge (or two) is present in the basal region between the dorsal and the lateral groups. The ridges of the two ventro-lateral groups are irregular and often incomplete. The somatocyst is short, oblique and club-shaped. The hydroecium does not extend above the level of the ostium, and is open on the ventral side.

Posterior nectophore:   Unknown.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

[NOTE: the drawing carries a single hand-lettered scale-bar label in small capitals reading
"1MM", the "1" being a bare vertical stroke with serifs; there are no panel letters. Small
stray ink specks lie in the right-hand margin beside the figure.]

<<<PAGE pdf=185 file=page_185.txt>>>
[PAGE 180]

180	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Genus: MUGGIAEA Busch, 1851

Type species: Muggiaea kochi (Will, 1844).

Species in which the small pentagonal anterior nectophore develops a complete dorsal ridge, but no conspicuous ostial teeth. The mouth-plate is divided, its baso-lateral angles not produced. The hydroecium is deep. No posterior nectophore is produced. The comparative lengths of the hydroecium and somatocyst are specifically diagnostic. Two species are very common. Four in all have been described. Muggiaea bargmannae occurs only to the southward of the Antarctic convergence, and in the Arctic.

I am inclined to think that Dimophyes, in whose only species the posterior nectophore is obsolescent, has affinities with Muggiaea.

For the history of the systematic treatment of these forms see Bigelow (1911b); for references Moser (1925); for development, Chun (1882, 1913) and Russell (1938); for the occurrence of M. atlantica and M. kochi in the English Channel see Russell (1934); Southward (1962).

Muggiaea kochi (Will, 1844)
Plate XXXII, figures 1, 2

(1) Polygastric phase

Diphyes kochii Will, 1844; Busch, 1851; Claus, 1884; Stiasny, 1911a, 1912
Muggiaea pyramidalis Busch, 1851
Muggiaea kochii Chun, 1882, 1888a, 1892; Fewkes, 1884; Graeffe, 1884; Chun, 1885; Claus, 1885; Haeckel, 1888b; Schneider, 1898; Stiasny, 1911a, 1912; Moser, 1925; Russell, 1934.
Non M. kochi Bourne, 1889 (= M. atlantica); Murbach and Shearer, 1903 (= D. chamissonis); Bigelow, 1911a, 1911b (= Lensia multi-cristata)
Monophyes primordialis Claus, 1874; Chun, 1882, 1885

(2) Eudoxid phase

Ersaea pyramidalis Will, 1844, Taf. II, figure 27
Eudoxia eschscholtzii Busch, 1851, Taf. IV, figures 7–10, Taf. V, figures 1–9; Leuckart, 1853; Chun, 1882, Taf. XVII, figure 3; 1888a, 1892
Non E. eschscholtzii Johannsen & Levinsen, 1903 (= Dimophyes arctica)

A common and often described species which has received a good deal of attention at Plymouth from F. S. Russell (1934). Its development was studied by Chun (1882, 1913). For an account of the chequered history of the systematic treatment of the species and a good description see Moser (1925, p. 100). Chun (1882, p. 1171) referred to the larva as the first generation (Monophyes primordialis), to the definitive nectophore as the second generation (Muggiaea kochii) and to the eudoxid as the third generation (Eudoxia eschscholtzii).

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 119A):   The nectophore is five-ridged, and the somatocyst spindle-shaped, and arises close to the nectosac as in the other species of the genus. Russell (1934) found that specimens preserved in formalin varied in length (ostium to apex) from 2·3 mm to 4·9 mm, the

[NOTE: a large blank space (about a quarter of the page) separates the paragraph ending
"Southward (1962)." from the "Muggiaea kochi (Will, 1844)" heading; no text or figure
stands in it. In the synonymy lists, lines that run over are indented; wrapped lines have
been joined into their entries here. Scattered small ink specks lie in the margins.]

<<<PAGE pdf=186 file=page_186.txt>>>
[PAGE 181]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	181

majority lying between 2·7 and 4·0 mm. The relatively short somatocyst measured from ostium to summit 51–52% of the height of the nectosac measured from the ostium, and the depth of the hydroecium measured 15–16% of the height of the nectosac.

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

Eudoxid phase

Figures were published by Will (1844); Busch (1851); and Chun (1882, Taf. XVII, fig. 3). It is not known how to distinguish these eudoxids from those of M. atlantica. They are unisexual.

[FIGURE]
A

B

FIG. 119.   A. Muggiaea kochi (Will), × 15
B. Muggiaea atlantica Cunningham, × 15
Lateral views of the polygastric phase (from Totton & Fraser, 1955)
[/FIGURE]

Muggiaea atlantica Cunningham, 1892
Plate XXXII, figure 3

Probably a neritic form like M. kochi. It was first noticed by Cunningham off the Eddystone in September 1891. Russell (1934) recorded that it occurred there for an unbroken series of years from 1913 to 1924 (excepting 1915) but that in 1925 its place was taken by another species M. kochi. Its distribution in the English Channel and Irish Sea in 1904 was worked out by Gough (1905). The last review of its distribution was made by Bigelow & Sears (1937, pp. 99–101). Both species are warm water forms. M. atlantica has a longer somatocyst and deeper hydroecium.

[NOTE: the only lettering on the drawings is the hand-lettered panel letters A and B; there
are no scale bars. A large blank space separates the figure caption from the "Muggiaea
atlantica" heading. Scattered small ink specks lie in the margins.]

<<<PAGE pdf=187 file=page_187.txt>>>
[PAGE 182]

182	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 119B; see also Cunningham, 1892, figs. 1–2; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 7, fig. 1):   Cunningham's specimens measured from 3–7 mm in length. Moser (1925, p. 106) said that the ridges were more or less strongly serrate. The hydroecium reaches up a third of the height of the nectosac. The somatocyst is long and tubular, and overtops the apex of the nectosac.

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

Eudoxid phase

(See Russell (1938, figs. 1, 2).)   Russell said that in their grosser features these eudoxids are indistinguishable from those of M. kochi. He gave their measurements as: total length usually 2–2·5 mm. His description was 'The bract is cone-shaped with a broad flat sutural surface, whose edges are raised into slight flanges. The right edge is continued downwards into a sweeping curve, while the left edge cuts away horizontally at its lower end. There is a slight cavity on the lower surface in which the somatocyst is centrally placed. The largest bract ever seen had an overall height of 1·9 mm. The gonophore bell is cylindrical and has four longitudinal ridges running from the apex to the velar opening with a spiral twist to the right. The two ventral ridges are prolonged below the velar opening and join to form a short curved mouth-plate. The right ventral ridge is more strongly developed than any of the others. Specimens with left-handed twisting or "mirror images", are common and are

[FIGURE]
Som.

Ns-

D

Vel.

E

Som.	H

C.rad.d.

Som.

Som.	Ns

Ol.

A	H

B

C.ped	C

o	2.mm.

FIG. 120.   Muggiaea bargmannae Totton
A, B, lateral and ventral views of the holotype, 'Discovery' St. 2012, 100–50 m; C, baso-ventral parts of
four paratypes from the same station, lateral view; D, E, apical and basal views of the holotype
Som = somatocyst; Ns = nectosac; C.rad.d = dorsal radial canal; H = hydroecium; Ol = oil; vel =
velum. All figs. × 12 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 63).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the labels inside the figure are hand-lettered in a sloping script and are given
above in reading order (top band left to right, then lower band). Several carry a final
full stop on the drawing that the printed caption's list of abbreviations omits: the
drawing has "Som.", "C.rad.d.", "Ol.", while the caption prints "Som", "C.rad.d", "Ol".
The label "Ns-" beside the upper left drawing is followed by a dashed leader. A small
solid ink blot sits at the apex of drawing D. The scale bar under C is labelled "o" at
the left and "2.mm." at the right, with one intermediate tick. The Russell quotation
opened with a single quotation mark on this page is not closed here and runs on to the
next page; the double quotation marks around "mirror images" are printed as inverted
commas.]

<<<PAGE pdf=188 file=page_188.txt>>>
[PAGE 183]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	183

presumably the second gonophores to be budded. The edges of the ridges are quite smooth, although some may show very faint traces of irregularity. The manubrium in fully developed gonophores extends more than two-thirds the length of the sub-umbrella cavity and has a pink tip. The radial canals follow the spiral courses of the ridges. One eudoxid was seen with twenty-one nematocyst batteries on its tentacle.'

Muggiaea bargmannae Totton, 1954
Text-figure 120

One of the five Antarctic and Arctic siphonophores, formerly confused with Dimophyes arctica, to which it bears some superficial resemblance in the preserved plankton hauls.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophores (text-fig. 120):   The convex longitudinal folds which form on contraction of the nectosac are not surmounted by crests as they are in atlantica and kochi. There is only a small gap between the apex of the nectosac and that of the whole nectophore. Near the ostium the base of the dorsal fold is nearly obliterated by the approach towards each other of the lateral longitudinal folds. The somatocyst is relatively short, tubular, or sausage-shaped, varying in diameter from 0·14 mm to 0·5 mm according to its content, and equals in length half the distance from apex of hydroecium to apex of nectosac. The hydroecium is shallower than that of M. kochi; may reach a depth of 1·75 mm and has a deep notch in the ventral wall; the base of the mid-line of this wall lies at about the same level as the ostium. There are two rounded overlapping mouth-plates about 0·9 mm length.

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Some associated gonophores from the Arctic have been examined, but at present their characteristics cannot be differentiated for description.

Distribution:   M. bargmannae has been recorded in the Antarctic from twenty-three closing net hauls made by R.R.S.S. 'Discovery' and 'Discovery II'. At a typical station (2017) the hauls containing it were made as follows: 100–50 m; 250–100 m; 500–250 m; and 750–500 m. One specimen was identified in each haul. Thanks to Dr. Martin W. Johnson of Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, I was able on July 3, 1962, to identify small specimens taken in the Arctic in hauls from 1,500, 1,000, 500 and 100 m to the surface. I had no details of the exact localities of these Arctic hauls. There were from one to four small nectophores in each haul, all except one being in a poor state of preservation.

It is interesting to find this species occurring in association with Dimophyes arctica, with which it can be easily confused, in both the Arctic and Antarctic.

Unlike Dimophyes arctica it has not, so far, been found in Atlantic bottom water.

Muggiaea delsmani Totton, 1954
Text-figure 121

Found in the low salinity water of the Java Sea with two other species that are characteristic of a similar environment.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 121):   Five-ridged with shallower hydroecium than in M. kochi.

[NOTE: the closing single quotation mark after "on its tentacle." closes the Russell
quotation begun on the previous page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=189 file=page_189.txt>>>
[PAGE 184]

184	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[NOTE: the upper two-thirds of this page is set in two columns — a narrow left column
holding text-figure 121 and its caption, and a wider right column of text. The left
column is given first, then the right column, then the full-measure text that resumes
below them.]

[FIGURE]
Ol.

o	1.mm.

FIG. 121.   Muggiaea delsmani Totton
Lateral view of the holotype, × 19,
from the Java Sea. ol = oil-drop in the
somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig.
55B).
[/FIGURE]

The upper wall of the hydroecium is more nearly horizontal than it is in M. kochi. Somatocyst short, its length equal to less than one-third of the distance from apex of hydroecium to apex of nectosac; its base lying close to the nectosac.

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Genus: DIMOPHYES Moser, 1925

Monotypic genus for Dimophyes arctica (Chun, 1897b).

The genus Dimophyes, was regarded by Moser as forming a monotypic family Dimophyidae, but there is only one species, which seems to fall naturally into the family Diphyidae as at present understood. The posterior nectophore is reduced, half enclosed in the hydroecium, and appears to be obsolescent. The dorsal side (mouth-plate) of the hydroecium of the anterior nectophore is undivided.

Dimophyes arctica (Chun, 1897)
Plate XXXIII, figures 1, 2, 7

Diphyes arctica Chun, 1897b
Dimophyes arctica Moser, 1925; Totton, 1954
For references see Moser, 1925, page 389

This form occurs in both the Arctic and Antarctic water masses and their derivatives. Its established range of temperature is from minus 1·13° to 13·26°C, being plentiful between 1° and 2°C. Mackintosh (1934) regarded D. arctica as one of the species of animals typical of the coldest Antarctic regions such as those of the Bellinghausen and Weddell Seas, and found that it never approached the Antarctic convergence. Moser reviewed its distribution data in 1925.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (see Chun, 1897b; Moser, 1925, Pl. XXVI, fig. 5; and text-fig. 122): Up to at least 13 mm in length. The most characteristic feature is the hydroecium, where the dorsal side (mouth-plate) is undivided and the ventral side is wide open. Except for its shallow, apical end it lies below the level of the ostium. From it arises a broad spindle-shaped somatocyst, broad at the base, tapered at the apex, which reaches up to a point about one quarter of the way from the apex of the nectosac to the ostium.

Posterior nectophore (see Moser, 1925, Taf. XXVI, fig. 2):   Obsolescent and reduced, with a rounded, truncated articulating surface; and an hydroecium bounded by two wings, deep proximally but shallow distally. The plane of the ostium is vertical rather than horizontal.

Eudoxid phase

(See Chun, 1897b, p. 21; Taf. 1, fig. 6.) About 9 mm in length.

Bract:   Characterized by the presence of the fine basal horn of the phyllocyst in the thin, broad

[NOTE: the figure's two labels are hand-lettered in sloping script: "Ol." beside the
somatocyst (the printed caption's abbreviation list gives it as "ol"), and the scale bar
is labelled "o" at the left and "1.mm." at the right, the "1" being a bare vertical
stroke. In the line beginning "least 13 mm in length", the initial letter of "least" is
a hand-drawn cursive ell standing in the left margin, apparently inked over the printed
letter; the word reads "least".]

<<<PAGE pdf=190 file=page_190.txt>>>
[PAGE 185]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	185

[NOTE: the upper half of this page is set in two columns — a wide left column of text and
a narrow right column holding text-figure 122 and its caption. The left column is given
first, then the right column, then the full-measure matter that resumes below them.]

and long neck-shield. The head piece is broadly conical and contains the large globular main part of the phyllocyst with its apical horn.

Gonophore:   Simple, about 7 mm long. There is scarcely any hydroecium. Estimated number of eggs from eighty to one hundred.

Cnidosac (see Chun, 1897b, Taf. 1, fig. 9):   Kidney-shaped 0·53 mm in length. Two lateral groups of about twelve needle-shaped nematocysts 0·28 mm in length.

Genus: CHELOPHYES Totton, 1932

Type species: Diphyes appendiculata Eschscholtz, 1829.

Diphyinae in which the medium sized anterior nectophore develops a dorsal ridge that extends only a short distance from the ostium towards the apex. It is thus quadrangular in the apical region. There are no conspicuous ostial teeth. The hydroecium is of medium depth, and claw-shaped when seen in profile. The mouth-plate is divided, its baso-lateral angles not markedly produced. The lateral radial canals of the posterior nectophore form an apical loop. There are only two species, which resemble each other more than either resembles other species.

[FIGURE]
FIG. 122.   Dimophyes arctica (Chun)
Lateral view of the anterior nectophore, 7 × 8 (from Totton & Fraser, 1955).
[/FIGURE]

Chelophyes appendiculata (Eschscholtz, 1829)
Plate XXXII, figure 4; Plate XXXIII, figure 6

(1) Polygastric phase

Diphyes appendiculata Eschscholtz, 1829; Bigelow, 1911b
D. elongata Hyndman, 1841
D. sieboldii Kölliker, 1853; Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861; Moser, 1925
D. acuminata Leuckart, 1853; Gegenbaur, 1859
D. gracilis Gegenbaur, 1854
D. bipartita Costa, 1836; Chun, 1888b; Mayer, 1900
D. elongata Haeckel, 1888b
Chelophyes appendiculata Totton, 1932, 1954; Bigelow & Sears, 1937

(2) Eudoxid phase

Eudoxia campanula Leuckart, 1853; Chun, 1888b; Müller, 1870–71; Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
E. messanensis Gegenbaur, 1854
Eudoxoides sagittata Huxley, 1859
Eudoxia russelli Totton, 1932
Chelophyes appendiculata Totton, 1954, plate IV, figures 1, 3
Non Diphyes appendiculata Bigelow, 1911b, plate XI, figure 9 (= Eudoxoides mitra)

The most abundant and best known diphyid. Its seasonal and geographical distribution in the Mediterranean was reviewed by Bigelow & Sears (1937). Its metamorphosis was described by Lochmann (1914, p. 273).

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 123):   Only three ridges at the apex, two of them ventral. The right lateral (sensu Bigelow) twists in the apical region to lie dorsally. The left lateral ridge does not reach

13

[NOTE: the "13" standing alone at the foot of the page in folio position is a printer's
signature mark, not a page number. The drawing in the right-hand column carries no
lettering of its own. The caption's magnification is printed "7 × 8" as given. The
surname in the D. sieboldii entry is printed "Kefferstein", with a double f.]

<<<PAGE pdf=191 file=page_191.txt>>>
[PAGE 186]

186	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

the apex (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. VIII, figs. 7, 8). Dorsal ridge very short, in the ostial region only. There are no baso-dorsal nor lateral teeth.

Posterior nectophore (see Bigelow 1911b, Pl. X, fig. 6):   The basal ends of the ventral ridges end in strong teeth, the left (sensu Moser) always one-third longer than the other. There is a minor tooth on each at about the level of the ostium. Inside the left-hand (sensu Bigelow) side-wing of the hydroecial cavity is a long flap, comparable with the comb found in a similar position in species of abylopsids. It reaches over to meet the other wing and so covers in the hydroecial cavity completely. In Moser's (1925) figure 3 of a young nectophore the arrangement is different. A full description can be found in Moser (1925, p. 244).

[NOTE: the middle band of the page carries two text-figures side by side — text-figure 123
in a narrow left-hand column with its caption below it, and text-figure 124 occupying the
rest of the measure with its caption below. They are given here left figure first, then
right figure.]

[FIGURE]
FIG. 123.   Chelophyes appendiculata (Eschscholtz)
Lateral view of the anterior nectophore (from Totton & Fraser, 1955).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
·5MM.

A

1MM

B

FIG. 124.   Chelophyes appendiculata (Eschscholtz). Eudoxid phase
A, bract, × 41; B, the whole eudoxid, × 39, from Gt. Barrier Reef (from Totton,
1932, fig. 25, as Eudoxia russelli)
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 124; see also Leuckart, 1853, Taf. 111, fig. 18; Totton, 1954, Pl. IV, figs. 1–3.) 5–6 mm long.

Eudoxids can easily be obtained from living animals at Villefranche, so that there is no longer any doubt as to their morphology. There is a deep bracteal cavity, the ventral surface meeting the sutural surface at an angle of about 75°. The somatocyst is cylindrical with a tapered apex; it reaches nearly to the apex of the sutural surface. The margin of the neck-shield of the bract is evenly rounded and smooth. The peduncle of the gonophore lies completely within the bracteal cavity, and there is no articulation between it and the margin of the bract.

[NOTE: in "Taf. 111, fig. 18" the three characters after "Taf." are printed as three
old-style digit ones, the same sort as the "1" of "1853" earlier in the line and shorter
than the capital "I" of "Pl. IV" later in it; they are given as printed and not normalised
to "III". The same substitution occurs in "Taf. 1" on the two preceding pages. The scale
bars in text-figure 124 are hand-lettered small capitals: "·5MM." (with a leading middle
dot) beside A and "1MM" beside B, the "1" being a bare vertical stroke with serifs. The
panel letters A and B are hand-lettered. In the caption of text-figure 123 the species
name is broken across the printed lines as "ap-/pendiculata"; the hyphen has been removed
here.]

<<<PAGE pdf=192 file=page_192.txt>>>
[PAGE 187]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	187

Male and female gonophores are borne by different eudoxids. The second gonophore to be budded is the mirror-image of the first. The whole eudoxid and the male gonophore were described and figured in detail by Totton (1932, text-figs. 25, 26) as Eudoxia russelli. Although Leuckart's (1853) description and figure of his Eudoxia campanella differ in some respects (see Totton, 1932, p. 356), I now consider them to be synonymous. It was a common eudoxid found by Leuckart at Nice. Eudoxia messanensis of Gegenbaur (1854) is not synonymous; it is probably the eudoxid of Lensia conoidea. I discussed the literature of this in 1954 (pp. 128–29).

Progression:   Notes on my observations will be found in Totton (1954, p. 129).

Chelophyes contorta (Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908)
Plate XXXII, figures 7, 8

Diphyes contorta Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
D. contorta Bigelow, 1911b

This species is not often taken by oceanographical expeditions. There are grounds for thinking that it may be a neritic form (see Totton, 1954, p. 130).

[NOTE: the middle band of the page carries two text-figures side by side — text-figure 125
on the left with its caption below it, and text-figure 126 on the right with its caption
below. They are given here left figure first, then right figure.]

[FIGURE]
A	B

N.s

Som.

2.mm.

1

o

Vel.

Pl.M.	H

FIG. 125.   Chelophyes contorta (L. & v. R.)
Polygastric phase. Lateral and ventral views of the anterior nectophore, × 10.5, from the Gulf of Aden. H = hydroecium; N.s = nectosac; Pl.M = mouth-plate; Som = somatocyst; Vel = velum (from Totton, 1954, fig. 65).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
1MM

0·5MM

A	B

FIG. 126.   Chelophyes contorta (L. & v. R.)
Ventral and lateral views of the posterior nectophore, × 25, Gt. Barrier Reef (from Totton, 1932, fig. 27).
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   About 7 mm in length (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 7, fig. 8; Pl. 8, fig. 3: Moser, 1925, Pl. XIII, fig. 5; and text-fig. 125). Resembles that of Ch. appendiculata, but the ventral facet is twisted and the somatocyst too turns sharply to the right (sensu Bigelow). The right-ventral ridge

[NOTE: the labels inside text-figure 125 are hand-lettered in a sloping script; several
carry a final full stop that the caption's list of abbreviations omits — the drawing has
"Pl.M.", "Som.", "Vel.", the caption "Pl.M", "Som", "Vel". Its scale bar is labelled
"2.mm." at the top, "1" (a bare sloping stroke) at the middle tick and "o" at the foot.
Text-figure 126 carries hand-lettered scale labels "1MM" and "0·5MM" (the "1" a bare
vertical stroke) and panel letters A and B. In the caption of text-figure 125 the
magnification is printed "× 10.5" with a low point, not the middle dot used for decimals
in the body text; it is given as printed. In the same caption the "=" after "Pl.M" is
printed lighter and slightly narrower than the others, but is an equals sign.]

<<<PAGE pdf=193 file=page_193.txt>>>
[PAGE 188]

188	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

(sensu Bigelow) does not reach the apex. The hydroecium is shallower than that of appendiculata, hardly extending above the level of the ostium. The mouth-plate, as I have observed it, is always divided, although Bigelow (1911b, p. 255) says that it is not. The dorsal ridge is short and confined to the basal end as in appendiculata.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 126):   It resembles that of Eudoxoides mitra, but lacks the dorso-apical notch found in that species.

Eudoxid phase

Very similar to that of C. appendiculata.

Genus: EUDOXOIDES Huxley, 1859

The generic name was used by Huxley for the eudoxid of E. mitra, which is the type species. Species in which the small pentagonal anterior nectophore has a complete dorsal ridge, but no conspicuous ostial teeth. The mouth-plate is divided, its baso-lateral angles produced into lancet-shaped wings. The lateral radial canals of the posterior nectophore form an apical loop.

Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley, 1859)
Plate XXXIII, figures 4, 5

Diphyes mitra Huxley, 1859
Diphyes gracilis Bedot, 1896 (non D. gracilis Gegenbaur, 1853 = Chelophyes appendiculata)
Diphyopsis diphyoides Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Diphyopsis mitra Bigelow, 1911b
Eudoxoides mitra Totton, 1932

A well-known species.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXIII, fig. 4)

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 12 mm in length (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 7, fig. 9). Not spirally twisted, with five serrate longitudinal ridges, all reaching the apex where they become smooth. There is a small baso-dorsal tooth but no laterals. The length of the part of the hydroecium below the ostial level is much greater than that of the part above. The hydroecium is truncate above, and the somatocyst is relatively short and pear-shaped. It reaches only to the mid-level of the nectosac. The mouth-plate is divided into two serrate wings, the outer angles acute, the distal edges concave. The left-hand (sensu Bigelow) wing is longer than the other and bears a secondary triangular flap or tooth (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 9, fig. 4).

Posterior nectophore (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 10, figs. 4, 5):   There is a characteristic notch between the apex and the pedicel – the apico-dorsal notch. The hydroecial canal is open except near the upper end where a broadening of the right hydroecial flap lies over a longer tongue-shaped broadening of the left to bridge the canal. There is a short basal prominence or tooth on the right, and a longer one on the left (sensu Bigelow). There is a prominence on the edge of each hydroecial flap about one-third of its length measured from the basal teeth.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXIII, fig. 5; text-fig. 127)

About 8 mm in length (see Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, Pl. VII, fig. 62; Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 11, fig. 9 – as D. appendiculata). Some criticisms of published figures can be found in Totton, 1932, page 359. The bract has a deep cavity and a pear-shaped phyllocyst.

The sutural surface of the bract forms an acute angle with the dorsal wall of the hydroecial cavity, so that the pedicel of the gonophore is correspondingly long. The serrate left sutural ridge curves

<<<PAGE pdf=194 file=page_194.txt>>>
[PAGE 189]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	189

away to a tooth at the distal edge. From this point to the base of the other sutural ridge it is smooth and somewhat concave. The gonophores (there is no special swimming bell, though the manubrium almost vanishes after shedding sperms or eggs) have two dorso-lateral teeth and a mouth-plate with concave edge and two lateral teeth.

[FIGURE]
1MM

A

1MM

B

FIG. 127.   Eudoxoides mitra (Huxley). Eudoxid phase
A, Bract, × 26; B, whole animal, × 16, Gt. Barrier Reef (from
Totton, 1932, fig. 28)
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxoides spiralis (Bigelow, 1911)
Plate XXXII, figures 5, 6

Diphyes spiralis Bigelow, 1911b
Muggiaea spiralis Moser, 1925
Eudoxoides spiralis Totton, 1932; Bigelow & Sears, 1937

Similar to E. mitra, but twisted. No posterior nectophore is produced. Common and easily recognized.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 128):   Up to 11 mm in length (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 7, fig. 4; Pl. 8, figs. 1, 2; Moser, 1925, Taf. 1, fig. 6). There are five twisted longitudinal ridges, but the left ventral ridge meets the right before it reaches the apex at which point there are in consequence only four ridges. The basal ends of the two ventral ridges are dissimilar. That of the right ventral ridge runs down to a deep notch in the ventral wall of the hydroecium. The basal end of the left ventral

[NOTE: the figure's lettering is hand-drawn: a scale bar labelled "1MM" stands above and
left of drawing A, and a second "1MM" bar beside the base of drawing B; the panel letters
A and B are at the foot of their drawings. They are listed above grouped by panel (A's
scale then A, B's scale then B), which is not their strict top-to-bottom order — the
second "1MM" stands a little above the "B". In each the "1" is a bare vertical stroke.
In "Moser, 1925, Taf. 1, fig. 6" the character after "Taf." is an old-style digit one,
the same sort as the "1" of "1925"; it is given as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=195 file=page_195.txt>>>
[PAGE 190]

190	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

ridge curves towards the mid ventral line and stops short at the level of the ostium. There are no dorsal or lateral teeth at the level of the ostium. The hydroecium is rather short and pointed at its apex, not truncated as in E. mitra. Its base is markedly asymmetrical. Its baso-lateral margins are concave (see Bigelow, Pl. 8, fig. 1), and each ends dorsally in a pronounced tooth. The mouth-plate is divided into two lanceolate wings of which the right-hand (sensu Bigelow) is much the larger (see Bigelow, Pl. 9, fig. 3). The left-hand wing bears a triangular flap or tooth as in E. mitra. The somatocyst is cylindrical, rather more than half as long as the nectosac, and lies obliquely to the right of the main axis (see Bigelow, Pl. 8, fig. 2).

Posterior nectophore:   Not developed.

[NOTE: the middle band of the page carries two text-figures side by side — text-figure 128
in a narrow left-hand column with its caption below it, and text-figure 129 occupying the
rest of the measure with its four drawings and its caption below them. They are given here
left figure first, then right figure.]

[FIGURE]
FIG. 128.   Eudoxoides spiralis (Bigelow) Polygastric phase, × 10 (from Totton & Fraser, 1955).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
1MM

D

C

1MM.

B

A

·25MM

FIG. 129.   Eudoxoides spiralis (Bigelow). Eudoxid phase
A, lateral view of the whole animal, × 27; B, enlarged view of the base of A, × 54;
C, lateral view of a detached female gonophore, × 27; D, ventral view of the bract,
× 27 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 30)
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 129.)   About 6 mm in length. The bract is similar to that of E. mitra, but the somatocyst is relatively longer and cylindrical, and there is no basal tooth on the margin of the neck-shield. The sutural surface of the bract forms at its base a right angle with the dorsal wall of the hydroecium, so that the hydroecial cavity is not as deep as it is in E. mitra. In consequence the gonophore does not develop a long pedicel but is truncate at its upper end. It is spirally twisted rather more than one quarter of a turn to the left or right according to the order of budding. An extended description is to be found in Totton (1932, pp. 362–3).

[NOTE: the drawing of text-figure 128 carries no lettering; in its caption the species name
is broken as "Polygas-/tric" across the printed lines and the hyphen has been removed here.
The lettering of text-figure 129 is hand-drawn and is listed above in top-to-bottom reading
order; the scale-bar labels read "1MM" (upper left of the group), "1MM." (right of C, with
a final full stop) and "·25MM" (below B), the "1" in each being a bare vertical stroke.
A small stray ink mark shaped like a raised comma stands in the left margin beside the
second line of the text-figure 129 caption, and a short dark stroke stands at the extreme
head of the page above the folio.]

<<<PAGE pdf=196 file=page_196.txt>>>
[PAGE 191]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 12 DIPHYIDAE	191

In the Bay of Algeciras I noted that polygastric specimens moved rapidly and intermittently with a darting motion. Their course was an open spiral one.

Eudoxia macra Totton 1954
Text-figure 130

Tentatively included in the Diphyidae is an eudoxid of unknown parentage, often found in plankton samples and easily recognizable from the figures. A description of the species must await the identification of the polygastric phase.

[FIGURE]
Phc.

Br.

G.z

C

Phc.

A

G[?a]

o.5 mm.

Br.

Man.

B

FIG. 130.   Eudoxia macra Totton. Eudoxid phase, × 46, 'Discovery' St. 1588, 250–100 m
A, whole eudoxid; B, another view of bract of same; C, bract of a second specimen
Br = bract;   Go = gonophore;   Gz = gastrozooid;   H = hydroecium;   Man = manubrium;
Phc = phyllocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 62).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the labels on the drawings are hand-lettered in a sloping script and are listed
above in top-to-bottom positional order, not in the caption's alphabetical order. Several
carry a final full stop that the caption's abbreviation list omits — the drawings have
"Phc.", "Br.", "Man.", the caption "Phc", "Br", "Man"; the drawing has "G.z" with a point
where the caption has "Gz". The label pointing to the gonophore in drawing B is
hand-lettered "G" followed by a rounded letter that reads as a single-storey "a" rather
than the "o" of the caption's "Go"; it is flagged above as uncertain. The scale bar is
labelled "o.5 mm." with a lower-case "o" for the zero. No "H" label appears on the
drawings although the caption lists one.]

<<<PAGE pdf=197 file=page_197.txt>>>
[PAGE 192]

192	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 130.)   The length overall is about 3·2 mm.

Bract:   1·25 mm long, with a rounded conical tip. Headpiece small. In optical section the headpiece and the neck-shield resemble those of D. bojani. The sutural surface is in a groove, its edges tending to overlap one another.

Gonophore:   2·5 mm long. Two dorso-lateral and two ventro-lateral canals. Two slight rounded ridges overlie the dorsal pair. There are two closely opposed hydroecial folds, one deeper than the other. Neither mouth-plate nor teeth present. Proximal end rounded and not articulating with the bract. From 14–16 eggs. The tip of the gonophore is deeply pigmented.

Family 13: CLAUSOPHYIDAE Fam.n.

Clausophyinae Bigelow, 1913
Heteropyramidinae Moser, 1925
Chuniphyinae Moser, 1925; Totton, 1954
Thalassophyinae Moser, 1925
Crystallophyinae Moser, 1925

There are only about half-a-dozen midwater species altogether in these five sub-families.

Moser's classification and theorizing appear to me to be very unsound. Her Heteropyramidinae and Thalassophyinae, each based on a single species which will probably prove to be one and the same, she placed – the former in queer company – in distant parts of her systematic arrangement. She still retained the old idea of classification according to the number and relative position of nectophores, using the categories Monophyidae, Diphyidae – Tribus Superpositae, Tribus Intermediae and Tribus Oppositae – and Polyphyidae. I am setting up the family Clausophyidae for her Diphyidae Tribus Intermediae and her Heteropyramidinae, all of which seem to be more closely related to one another than to the Diphyidae. One distinguishing morphological character of the Clausophyidae is the possession of a somatocyst by the posterior nectophore, as well as by the anterior one. Another is that, in species whose eudoxid phase is known, there are two longitudinal horns or branches of the phyllocyst lying in the neck-shield of the bract.

Genus: CLAUSOPHYES Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

At one time it was thought (see Chun, 1897b) that Clausophyes formed a link connecting the two families Prayidae and Diphyidae, but Bigelow (1913, p. 71) pointed out that Clausophyes was really an offshoot of the Diphyidae. He reached this conclusion chiefly because the anterior and posterior nectophores of C. galeata were unlike, and also because, the somatocyst of the posterior nectophore was structurally like that of the anterior one in being a special organ deeply embedded in the gelatinous substance, whereas in the Prayids he maintained that it was merely a slightly thickened extension of the canal system. I fear that the second reason may not be valid, but it seems reasonable to maintain a special sub-family for those diphyids with a somatocyst in the posterior nectophore. It seems to be probable that the anterior nectophore of the Clausophyidae is the larval one retained, so that it is understandable that the first definitive heteromorph one the posterior nectophore develops a somatocyst, though those of abylids do not. The Clausophyidae seem to be more primitive than the abylids.

Only two species of Clausophyes have been described. They appear to be distinguished chiefly by the character of the distal margin of the posterior nectophores and of the size of the basal end of the right-hand hydroecial fold. For evidence of the existance of a third see Totton (1954, p. 133). The present state of their specific diagnoses is unsatisfactory.

[NOTE: in the first sentence of the "Genus: CLAUSOPHYES" paragraph the genus name is set
"Clausophyes" with the first six letters in italic and "phyes" in roman — "Clausophyes"
— apparently a wrong-fount sort; it is given as an ordinary word here. "existance" in the
last paragraph is as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=198 file=page_198.txt>>>
[PAGE 193]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 13 CLAUSOPHYIDAE	193

Clausophyes ovata (Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1860)
Plate XXXV, figures 1, 4–10

Diphyes ovata K. & E., 1860, 1861
Galeolaria ovata Chun, 1897a

A species that appears to be found in deeper water. It was taken in twenty-three closing nets by R.R.S. 'Discovery II' at depths ranging from 3,000–2,000 m to 310–260 m.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXV, figs. 1, 4, 5)

Anterior nectophore:   Up to 20 mm in length (see Moser, 1925, Taf. XXIV, fig. 4). Laterally compressed, generally smooth, blunt, rounded at apex, soft in consistency, pear-shaped en profile, with oblique ostium, smaller than posterior nectophore. The open hydroecium is bounded by two broad baso-ventral wings, whose rounded basal ends project down below the level of the ostium. It extends half-way up the nectophore. The somatocyst is long with a spindle-shaped expansion in the region of the apex of the nectosac. It extends as a narrow cylinder from there to the apex of the nectophore. The junction of pedicular canal, base of somatocyst and stem is at a point one-third of the distance from the base of the nectophore to the apex, so that the ventral radial canal of the nectosac is relatively long. The whole nectophore is reminiscent of a larval diphyid nectophore, as it probably is, retained.

Posterior nectophore:   Up to 30 mm in length (see Moser, 1925, Taf. XXV, figs. 3, 4). With an open hydroecium extending the whole distance from apex to base. The point of attachment is at mid-length. The nectosac has a well rounded apex, and the lateral radial canals are looped. There is a long somatocyst which has a terminal spindle-shaped swelling. The distal end of the mouth-plate is truncated and has no lateral teeth.

[FIGURE]
C.h.l.

H

Phc.

o	1	2.mm.

FIG. 131.   Clausophyes ovata (Kefferstein & Ehlers). Eudoxid phase
Bract, × 25, 'Discovery' St. 1567
C.h.l = left hydroecial canal; H = hydroecium; Phc = phyllocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 67).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: a hand-drawn ink stroke runs down through the "ff" of "Kefferstein" in the species
heading; the printed word is "Kefferstein", with a double f, as in the caption below. The
drawing's labels are hand-lettered in a sloping script and carry final full stops that the
caption's abbreviation list omits — the drawing has "C.h.l.", "Phc.", the caption "C.h.l",
"Phc". The scale bar beneath the drawing is graduated and labelled "o", "1" (a bare
sloping stroke) and "2.mm.".]

<<<PAGE pdf=199 file=page_199.txt>>>
[PAGE 194]

194	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXV, fig. 6)

Bract (text-fig. 131):   With rounded apex. From the base of the phyllocyst, which reaches the apex, arise a pair of fine canals which extend basad to the bracteal margin. Gonophore unknown. The still attached stem-groups have been mentioned and figured only by Kefferstein and Ehlers (1861, Taf. V, figs. 2–5). These figures show what appears to be an asexual swimming bell, but no gonophores.

Clausophyes galeata Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Plate XXXV, figure 11

C. galatea Bigelow, 1913 (Lapsus calamae for galeata)

A little known species described originally from the posterior nectophore only. The only other mentions and/or figures are by Bigelow (1913) and Totton (1954).

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXV, fig. 11)

Anterior nectophore:   At present not to be distinguished from that of Clausophyes ovata.

Posterior nectophore:   Similar to that of C. ovata but the mouth-plate has two lateral teeth, smooth edged, triangular, of equal length.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Genus: CHUNIPHYES Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908

Type species Ch. multidentata L. & van R., 1908

Moser treated as another species the chuniphyid eudoxid Chuniphyes problematica Moser, 1925, having already stated that she did not know if Chuniphyes produced eudoxids. A second species moserae Totton was described in 1954. We are not yet in a position to differentiate between the eudoxids of the two species. It was Leloup (1934, p. 51) who first determined that Ch. problematica was an eudoxid, and gave good figures of the bract and gonophore.

Chuniphyes multidentata Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Text-figure 132B

Chuniphyes multicristata (lapsus calamae) Bigelow & Sears, 1937

A bathypelagic species widespread in all the great oceans. The last important review of this species was that of Bigelow and Sears (1937, p. 60). For full descriptions see Bigelow (1911b), and Moser (1925). Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 8, fig. 9), gave a good figure of a whole chuniphyid under the name of this species, but from the shape of the somatocyst it appears to represent the other species Ch. moserae Totton.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 132B):   Up to 36 mm in length. For a full description see Bigelow (1911b, pp. 262–3). There are four ridges at the apex. The ventral ridge runs undivided to the opening of the hydroecium. The dorsal and pair of laterals branch dichotomously at from 5 mm to 7·5 mm below the apex in a specimen 3 cm in length overall (see Bigelow, 1931, figs. 208, 209). The dorso-lateral ridges end in prominent teeth, the two dorsals and two ventro-laterals in minor ones. There is a prominent tooth in the basal margin of each lateral wall of the hydroecium. The hydroecium

[NOTE: printed round brackets are used for the two "lapsus calamae" glosses; the first is
set "(Lapsus calamae for galeata)" with a capital L, the second "(lapsus calamae)" with a
lower-case l, as given. No square brackets occur on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=200 file=page_200.txt>>>
[PAGE 195]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 13 CLAUSOPHYIDAE	195

[FIGURE]
o	o

Som.

1.cm.	1.cm.

H

A	B

FIG. 132.   Chuniphyes moserae Totton
A, lateral view of the holotype, polygastric phase, × 5, 'Discovery' St. 1639, 2,400–1,150 m

Chuniphyes multidentata L. & v. R.
B, Polygastric phase, × 5, 'Discovery' St. 407, 800–900 m
H = hydroecium; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 66).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: text-figure 132 occupies almost the whole page, with only the running head above it
and its caption below. Its lettering is hand-drawn: each of the two drawings has a vertical
scale bar labelled "o" at the top and "1.cm." at the foot (the "1" a bare sloping stroke);
the single label "Som." with dashed leaders to both drawings stands between them; "H" is
at the lower left of drawing B; and the panel letters "A" and "B" stand at the foot of
their drawings. The drawing's "Som." carries a final full stop that the caption's
abbreviation list ("Som") omits. In the caption line "H = hydroecium; Som = somatocyst"
the second equals sign is printed lighter than the first. A short stray ink stroke stands
in the blank space above the drawings, about a third of the way across the measure.]

<<<PAGE pdf=201 file=page_201.txt>>>
[PAGE 196]

196	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

forms a deep cleft in the ventro-basal region. Its upper end reaches only two-thirds of the way up the nectosac. The stem is attached at its junction with the base of the pedicel of the somatocyst and the base of the pedicular canal on a rounded prominence at two-thirds of the height of the hydroecium. The somatocyst is divided into a broad two winged basal part that lies below the level of the apex of the nectosac, and a very fine long simple and terminal tube that reaches nearly to the apex of the nectophore.

Posterior nectophore:   Up to 40 mm length (see Bigelow & Sears (1937, fig. 48) ). The differences between that of multidentata and moserae have not been determined with certainty since there appear to be posterior nectophores of two kinds. One has markedly asymmetrical ventro-basal teeth and thick mesogloea separating the hydroecium from the nectosac. This will probably prove to belong to Ch. multidentata. There are three ridges at the apex, one dorsal and a pair of ventro-laterals, each of which divides dichotomously lower down, so that in the lower region there are six longitudinal ridges and six basal teeth. The dorsal ridge divides (see Bigelow & Sears, 1937) at a point 8% of the distance from apex to base. Each ventro-lateral divides at about 25% of the distance, apex to base, the lateral member of each pair continuing to run directly to the base, but the ventral member bending at first abruptly ventrad, then abruptly towards the base. In the upper region there is a pair of overlapping flaps, borne by the hydroecial wings, that close that part of the hydroecial canal. The pedicular canal, leading to the junction of the four radial canals, is given off some 5 mm below the junction to the 'Stiel-canal', and the pallial canal is continued below this point for about 6 mm (in a 30 mm long nectophore).

Eudoxid phase

The eudoxids of the two species cannot be identified and distinguished from one another. But the general shapes of bract, somatocyst and gonophore were described and figured by Leloup (1934, pp. 46–51, figs. 12–13). Both bract and gonophore are flattened dorso-ventrally. The somatocyst has a pair of longitudinal horns and a large median portion. The bract measures about 4 mm in length × 1·5 mm and its sides are recurved.

The pentagonal, flattened, gonophore measures about 7 mm in length × 4 mm. There is a dorsal (ventral sensu Leloup) ridge terminating in a minor tooth, and a pair of well developed laterals terminating in prominent teeth. The two ventral ridges form the sides of a shallow, gutter-like hydroecium and may sometimes unite in the apical region. The middle region of these ventral wings is little elevated. Above they form rounded projections seen en profile; below they are less marked, and end in small teeth a short distance above the ostium.

Chuniphyes moserae Totton, 1954
Plate XXXV, figure 2; text-figure 132A

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 132A):   Similar to that of Ch. multidentata. Moser evidently had a specimen of this species as a model for her (1925) Pl. 23, figure 1. Prior to 1954 differences between somatocysts had been noted, but not considered of specific significance. The criterion for specific identification is the somatocyst which in Ch. moserae is not expanded horizontally on its basal region, but is fusiform or spindle-shaped. The terminal part of the somatocyst is relatively shorter than in multidentata and bears short irregularly shaped side-branches. The hydroecium extends up nearly to the apex of the nectosac, and the enlarged basal part of the somatocyst generally overtops this apex. The dorso-lateral teeth may not be relatively so long as in multidentata. The points where the lateral and dorsal ridges diverge is relatively nearer to the apex of the nectophore in moserae.

Posterior nectophore:   Not at present distinguishable with certainty from that of multidentata.

[NOTE: the two per-cent signs on this page are printed with the solidus and the lower nought
set below the line of the upper one, in the older style; they are given as "%". Small stray
ink strokes stand in the left margin beside the fourth line of the first paragraph and
beside the "Polygastric phase" heading, and in the right margin beside the line ending
"gutter-like hydroecium".]

<<<PAGE pdf=202 file=page_202.txt>>>
[PAGE 197]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 13 CLAUSOPHYIDAE	197

Eudoxid phase

Not at present distinguishable.

Genus: CRYSTALLOPHYES Moser, 1925

Chrystallophyes Moser (lapsus calamae), 1925, p. 356

A monotypic genus for C. amygdalina Moser, 1925.

Crystallophyes amygdalina Moser, 1925
Text-figures 133, 134

Described originally from three nectophores found off the Antarctic continent. Reported again by Leloup (1934) (two specimens from S. Georgia) and Totton (1954, seventy-two anterior and twenty-three associated posterior nectophores). It is evidently a mid-water form.

[FIGURE]
A
Som.
H
C.pa
C.ped
C.rad.v.
3mm
2
1
0
C.rad.lat
Pl.M.
C
Vel.
Pl.M.
B
Som.
C.pa
C.ped

FIG. 133.   Crystallophyes amygdalina Moser. Polygastric phase
A, lateral view of the anterior nectophore, 'Discovery' St. 663, 1,000–750 m; B, C, ventral views of posterior nectophores; B, 'Discovery' St. 129, 500–250 m; C, 'Discovery' St. 663, 750–500 m, × 14

C.pa = pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; C.rad.lat, C.rad.v = lateral and ventral radial canals; H = hydroecium; Pl.M = mouth-plate; Som = somatocyst; Vel = velum (from Totton, 1954, fig. 69).
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 133A):   The five longitudinal ridges do not divide into two in the basal region as they do in Chuniphyes. The hydroecium extends up almost to the apex. In the ostial

<<<PAGE pdf=203 file=page_203.txt>>>
[PAGE 198]

198	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
Som.
A
N.s
C.rad.d.
C.rad.lat
C.rad.v.
F.h.
H
Vel.
B
Som.
C.pa
C.ped
F.h.
C.rad.lat
5.mm.
0

FIG. 134.   Crystallophyes amygdalina Moser. Polygastric phase
Posterior nectophore. A, ventral; B, lateral view, × 13, 'Discovery' St. 357, 750–500 m
N.s = nectosac; F.h = hydroecial fold; for other abbreviations see text-figure 133 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 68).
[/FIGURE]

region its side walls almost disappear. The ostial ends of the lateral ridges are characteristically curved. The curved mouth-plate is very minute.

Posterior nectophore (text-figs. 133B, C and 134): Flattened dorso-ventrally in the apical region, where the five longitudinal ridges do not meet in a point. The ventrals join the laterals a short distance below the apex. The laterals have prominent pointed teeth at the ostial end. The lateral radial canals leave the junction of canals at a point about a quarter of the distance from apex to ostium of nectosac, and scarcely form an upward loop at all. The hydroecium runs from apex to ostium. There is a pair of small pointed flaps on the inner edges of the hydroecial folds (ventral ridges) at mid-length. There is a fine somatocyst, 3·5 mm in length.

Eudoxid phase – unrecorded.

[NOTE: the scale-bar label in the figure is hand-lettered; the leading glyph is read here as
the numeral 5 ("5.mm."), but at this resolution it could be taken for a lowercase s. The
figure's in-drawing lettering, as always in this monograph, is hand-drawn italic.]

<<<PAGE pdf=204 file=page_204.txt>>>
[PAGE 199]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 13 CLAUSOPHYIDAE	199

Genus: HETEROPYRAMIS Moser, 1925

? Thalassophyes Moser, 1925

A monotypic genus for H. maculata Moser, 1925. Its relationships were not understood by Moser, who treated it with Nectopyramis, Sphaeronectes and Muggiaea as parts of a family Monophyidae.

Heteropyramis maculata Moser, 1925
Text-figure 135

Only a dozen or so spotted nectophores of this obscure mid-water form have been recorded since 1925, by Leloup (1934) and Totton (1954).

It is possible that this form with its opaque spots will prove eventually to be conspecific with the unspotted Thalassophyes crystallina Moser.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (see Moser, 1925, Taf. 2, figs. 1–3; and text-fig. 135D):   Up to 13 mm in length, pyramidal, five-ridged at apex. The deep hydroecium, which extends up nearly two-thirds of the distance to the apex is delimited by two small, incomplete, ventro-lateral ridges. At present a series of opaque spots on the dorso-lateral ridges is taken as a criterion for specific identification. They vary in number and situation (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 70) but are often nine in number, one each at the apical and basal ends of each dorso-lateral ridge, and from two to four intermediate ones.

[FIGURE]
A
Phc.
Br.
Gz
Ov.
C.h.l
A'
C.rad.
Ns
H
D.
L.
D.
L.
B
Br.
Phc.
H
C.h.l.
Gz
C
Phc.
H
C.h.l.
Go.
Gz
D
4.mm.
Som.
H
Ns
Gz
0

FIG. 135.   Heteropyramis maculata Moser
A–C, Eudoxid phase; D, Polygastric phase; all × 15
A, whole eudoxid, 'Discovery' St. 127, 950–780 m; A', diagrammatic transverse section of a gonophore; B, C, bract of the eudoxid, 'Discovery' St. 2927, 750–500 m; D, anterior nectophorea
'Discovery' St. 2927, 750–500 m
Br = bract; C.h.l = left hydroecial canal; C.rad = radial canal; D = dorsal; Go = gonophore; Gz = gastrozooid; H H' = hydroecium; L = left; Ns = nectosac; Ov = ovum; Phc = phyllocyst; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 71).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the query mark opening the second line, "? Thalassophyes Moser, 1925", is printed
bare, without square brackets. The caption's "D, anterior nectophorea" is so printed — the
final "a" appears to be a printer's error for "nectophore". A small stray ink hook stands in
the left margin beside the caption line "'Discovery' St. 2927, 750–500 m". Figure lettering
throughout is hand-drawn italic; the scale-bar terminals are read as "4.mm." at top and "0"
at foot.]

<<<PAGE pdf=205 file=page_205.txt>>>
[PAGE 200]

200	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Well preserved specimens are not available, and figures such as those of Moser (1925, Taf. 2, figs. 1–3) must be used with caution. The pear-shaped nectosac is barely half the length of the nectophore, and lies wholly below the somatocyst, which is spindle-shaped below and lies obliquely to the main longitudinal axis. Apically the somatocyst is produced into a fine vertical tube.

Apart from the spots it is difficult to distinguish the anterior nectophore (with spots) from that of Thalassophyes crystallina Moser (without spots).

Posterior nectophore:   Not recorded.

[FIGURE]
A
H
F.h.
Gz
3mm
2
1
0
B
Som.
H
C.pa
F.h.
C
H

FIG. 136.   Thalassophyes crystallina Moser. Polygastric phase
A, lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 16, 'Discovery' St. 1588, 500–200 m; B, C, lateral and ventral views, × 16, of a specimen, 'Discovery' St. 102, 750–500 m
F.h = hydroecial fold; H = hydroecium; C.pa = pallial canal; Som = somatocyst (from Totton, 1954, fig. 72).
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase

(Text-fig. 135A–C.)   Four-ridged with a neck shield, into which penetrate two lateral longitudinal horns of the somatocyst as in Chuniphyes spp. Ceratocymba spp. and some other Abylidae.

The phyllocyst in general resembles the somatocyst, but the main part is relatively shorter and deeper as seen en profile, and the terminal part relatively longer. The gonophore is five-ridged, and dorsal ridge being added as in Abylinae. The presence of opaque spots is the criterion for specific identification. There is an apical spot on the bract, a spot at the base of each dorso-lateral ridge of the bract, and a spot at each end of the two dorso-lateral ridges of the gonophore.

The phenomenon of opaque spots may prove to be comparable with blanching in Hippopodius.

Genus: THALASSOPHYES Moser, 1925

? Heteropyramis Moser, 1925

A monotypic genus for T. crystallina Moser, 1925.

It is quite probable that T. crystallina Moser will eventually prove to be the 'unspotted' form of

[HANDWRITTEN] the printed word "and" in "The gonophore is five-ridged, and dorsal ridge being added" is struck through in ink and a small "a" is written after it, with a stroke trailing off into the right margin — an ink correction of the printed text to "five-ridged, a dorsal ridge being added".

[NOTE: the query mark opening "? Heteropyramis Moser, 1925" is printed bare, without square
brackets; there are no printed square brackets anywhere on this page. The italic capital T of
"Thalassophyes crystallina" at the start of that line is over-inked, with a short stray stroke
above and to its left in the margin of the preceding line.]

<<<PAGE pdf=206 file=page_206.txt>>>
[PAGE 201]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 14 SPHAERONECTIDAE	201

Heteropyramis maculata. Good specimens of the maculate form are rarely taken, but are indistinguishable from the unspotted form except for the spots, which vary in number and opacity.

Thalassophyes crystallina Moser, 1925

? Heteropyramis maculata Moser, 1925

A little known mid-water species. Records of more than sixty specimens were published by Totton (1954).

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 136; see also Moser, 1925, Taf. 23, figs. 5, 6):   Hardly distinguishable from that of Heteropyramis maculata except for lack of spots. Pyramidal, five-ridged at apex. Hydroecium deep, with a pair of small incomplete ventro-lateral ridges. Nectosac, and somatocyst as in H. maculata.

Posterior nectophore:   Not recorded. Indistinguishable from that of H. maculata.

Eudoxid phase

Not recorded. Indistinguishable from that of H. maculata except for absence of spots.

Family 14: SPHAERONECTIDAE Huxley, 1859

The family contains only one isolated genus of perhaps neotenic forms. Sphaeronectes Huxley, 1859.

Bigelow (1911b) discussed a family Sphaeronectidae containing sub-families Sphaeronectinae, Muggiinae and Nectopyramidinae. In 1932 I suggested that this arrangement did not reflect natural relationships, and in 1937 Bigelow, in a joint paper with Dr. M. Sears adopted the suggestion that I there made. Bigelow (1911b) gave an excellent history of the genus and species.

Genus: SPHAERONECTES Huxley, 1859

Diplophysa Gegenbaur, 1853b (eudoxid phase)

Type species: S. gracilis Claus, 1873.

It was this beautiful and remarkable little 'monophyid' in which the stem was supposed to arise from the exumbral pole of the nectosac that gave rise to the medusoid theory of siphonophore evolution. The mesogloea of the nectophore of both species is soft and the exterior surface rather adhesive. They were both unusually abundant at Villefranche in the spring of 1962 when I preserved very successfully many specimens. I had previously been able to rear larvae (text-fig. 137A–D) and am of the opinion that the larval nectophore is not caducous but develops into the definitive one. The work needs repetition. Because of the resemblance in some respects between the larval, caducous nectophores of Prayids, Diphyids and perhaps other forms and those of Sphaeronectids, I suspect that Sphaeronectes is a neotenous form. But its relationships are not yet clear.

Five differences between the nectophores of the two species were given on page 184 of Bigelow's (1911b) 'Albatross' Report. These are referred to under the descriptions of the species. In S. gracilis the apex of the somatocyst curves over towards the dorsal side. I am inclined to regard this phenomenon to be analogous with an early evolutionary stage of the condition found in most abylids and in Ceratocymba, though not in Bassia (see Totton, 1954, figs. 1, 2). In these abylids the main part of the somatocyst lies entirely on the dorsal side of the hydroecium.

14

[NOTE: the "14" standing alone at the foot of the page, at the left, is a printer's signature
mark, not a folio. The query mark opening "? Heteropyramis maculata Moser, 1925" is printed
bare, without square brackets; there are no printed square brackets on this page. The letters
"ga" of "gave" in "Bigelow (1911b) gave an excellent history" are over-inked and look bolder
than the surrounding text; a faint speck stands after "In S. gracilis" where there is no
printed punctuation.]

<<<PAGE pdf=207 file=page_207.txt>>>
[PAGE 202]

202	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
A
s
ns
y
t
m
B
s
ns
y
D
s
0·5 mm
ns
y
h
t
m
C
s
ns
y
m

FIG. 137.   Sphaeronectes sp., ? gracilis Claus
Larvae bred from eggs of a 'Diplophysa' eudoxid taken on May 23 1950, at Villefranche. A, youngest larva; B, upper view; C, lateral view of slightly older stage; D, 6-day old larva, × 86
h = hydroecium; m = mouth; ns = nectosac; s = somatocyst; t = tentacle; y = yolk.
[/FIGURE]

Sphaeronectes gracilis (Claus, 1873; 1874)
Plate XXXVI, figure 1

? Ersaea truncata Will, 1844 (eudoxid), Taf. II, figures 1–4
Diplophysa inermis Gegenbaur, 1853b (eudoxid), Taf. XVI, figure 3
For synonymy see Bigelow, 1911b, page 184 (as S. truncata)

This is the larger of the two species.

Polygastric phase

(Text-fig. 138.)   The apex of the somatocyst usually curves over towards the dorsal side of the hydroecium, which is longer and less open on the dorsal side than in S. irregularis. The lateral radial canals are not bowed as they are in S. irregularis.

Eudoxid phase

The term 'Diplophysa' can be applied to the eudoxid of both species. Differences between the eudoxids of the two have not yet been made clear. The four branches of the somatocyst so frequently to be identified in only distantly related eudoxids are reduced to one in Sphaeronectes. Gegenbaur (1853b, Taf. XVI, fig. 3) gave a good figure of a 'Diplophysa', but I am not aware that its specific identity was established.

The species is said to occur generally in the tropical and sub-tropical regions of all three great oceans. It was abundant in Monterey Bay, California, in July 1928 (Bigelow & Leslie, 1930). It floats

[NOTE: the four drawings of text-figure 137 are lettered A (upper left), B (upper right),
D (lower left) and C (lower right); the labels above are listed in that visual order, A, B, D, C,
not in alphabetical order. The scale bar beside D is lettered "0·5 mm" set vertically, reading
upwards. The query marks in the caption ("Sphaeronectes sp., ? gracilis Claus") and opening
the first synonymy line ("? Ersaea truncata Will, 1844") are printed bare, without square
brackets; there are no printed square brackets on this page. The figure lettering is in a
sans-serif hand, lower case, unlike the italic lettering of the preceding figures.]

<<<PAGE pdf=208 file=page_208.txt>>>
[PAGE 203]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 14 SPHAERONECTIDAE	203

in the position shown in Chun's (1885) figure (see Pl. XXXVI, fig. 1) and in my text-figure [illegible], with the ostium downwards.

Measurements:   Up to 8 mm in diameter (Bigelow, 1911b). Gastrozooid length 0·6 mm, diameter 0·15 mm. Pedicel of gastrozooid 0·35 mm long, with buds of bract and gonophore at proximal end, on the stem. Tentacle length, relaxed, 11 mm.

Variation:   The somatocyst varies in shape, probably with age.   Instead of curving over toward the dorsal side the tip may continue to grow spirally to form even more than one complete turn.

Sphaeronectes irregularis (Claus, 1873)

Monophyes irregularis Claus, 1873, 1874; Chun, 1888a, 1892, 1897b; Haeckel, 1888b; Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925
Monophyes brevitruncata Chun, 1888a, 1892, 1897b
Sphaeronectes truncata Schneider, 1898

This is the smaller of the two species.

Polygastric phase

The somatocyst is short and straight, and the hydroecium is shorter and more open on the dorsal side than in S. gracilis. The lateral radial canals are bowed – another good diagnostic feature. The nectophore measures up to 5·7 mm in diameter and 7·1 mm in depth. The nectosac up to 4·3 mm in diameter and 2·8 mm in depth. The nectophore floats with the ostium downwards, as in S. gracilis.

Eudoxid phase

The 'Diplophysa' has not yet been shown to be distinct from that of S. gracilis, though M. Carré of Villefranche told me in April 1964 that he could distinguish two types.

[FIGURE]
br.+gon
1 mm
gz
st
hy
t
c.r
s

FIG. 138.   Sphaeronectes gracilis Claus. Polygastric phase
Base of hydroecium with budding zone of the stem
br+gon = bracts  and  gonophores;  c.r = radial  canals;  gz = gastrozooid; hy = hydroecium; st = stem; s = somatocyst; t = tentacle.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: in the first line the phrase "and in my text-figure" followed by a three-figure number
is struck through with a heavy ink line; the wording is still legible but the number under the
strike is not, and is marked [illegible] above. The scale bar of text-figure 138 is lettered
"1 mm" set vertically, reading upwards. There are no printed square brackets on this page. A
small ink dot stands in the lower left area of the page below the figure caption.]

<<<PAGE pdf=209 file=page_209.txt>>>
[PAGE 204]

204	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Family 15: ABYLIDAE L. Agassiz, 1862

Abylidae L. Agassiz, 1862; Haeckel 1888b; Totton, 1932; 1954
Abylinae Lens & v. Riemsdijk, 1908; Bigelow, 1911b; Moser, 1925; Sears, 1953

There is a smaller anterior nectophore whose hydroecial cavity is closed in on the ventral side to form a tube that opens below. Also a larger, posterior, heteromorph, definitive nectophore, whose apophysis fits into the hydroecial tube (Enneagonum is an exception).

As Bigelow (1911b) pointed out the genera fall into two main groups, which I believe to be natural, based on the shape of the anterior nectophore. The posterior nectophore is not such a good guide.

In one sub-family, Abylinae, the anterior nectophore has as a rule, a rectangular apical facet. In the other sub-family Abylopsinae there is no apical facet, but a ridge, formed by the junction of two lateral facets (text-fig. 153).

The genera and species were very usefully reviewed with explanatory figures by Dr. Mary Sears in 1953. Into her revision she introduced a number of what I venture to consider to be confusing new synonyms for isolated and what appear to be pathological specimens. They seem to me to have suffered accidents in their development. On this account and with all respect to Dr. Sears, to whom I at once communicated my detailed comments, I have relegated them where possible to synonymy. Similar phenomena are well known to entomologists who adopt the same procedure. Abylids seem to occur abundantly, and so far we have not often depended on isolated specimens for our knowledge of species. The apparent freakishness of the specimens referred to is unlike the type of specific differentiation and variation that we have seen so far. It is, in my view, of a pathological rather than genetic kind.

In all abylids except Bassia, the somatocyst has curved over to  occupy a position on the ventral side of the hydroecium. What appears to be the commencement of development of such an arrangement can be seen in Sphaeronectes gracilis. Sphaeronectes, therefore, may possibly be a proto-Abylid, or perhaps a neotenic form.

The five genera appear to be natural groups, and nowadays are easily distinguishable.

Sub-family i: ABYLINAE L. Agassiz, 1862 s.str.

Cymbonectinae Haeckel, 1888b (partim); L. & v. R., 1908
Diphyabylinae Lens & v. R., 1908
Ceratocymbinae Moser, 1925
Abylinae Totton, 1932; 1954

Abylidae, in the anterior nectophore of which there is as a rule a rectangular apical facet (see text-fig. 147a). I have restricted this sub-family to the genera Abyla and Ceratocymba.

Genus: CERATOCYMBA Chun, 1888

Cymba Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
Nacella Blainville, 1830
Diphyabyla Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Pseudocymba Sears, 1953

Type species: Ceratocymba sagittata (Quoy & Gaimard, 1827).

The chief diagnostic characteristics of this genus, as I stated in 1954, are that the eudoxid is a 'cymba' and the posterior nectophore has left and right dorso-lateral ridges terminating on the lateral teeth. There is a short median-dorsal ridge terminating in the dorsal tooth. The ventro-lateral facet of the anterior nectophore is not divided by a horizontal ridge as it is in Abyla (see text-fig. 147a).

[NOTE: the sub-family number in "Sub-family i: ABYLINAE" is a lower-case roman i, as printed.
"Haeckel 1888b" in the first synonymy line is printed without a comma after the surname. There
are no printed square brackets on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=210 file=page_210.txt>>>
[PAGE 205]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	205

Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley, 1859)
Plate XXXVI, figures 2–5, 7; text-figures 139, 141B, D

For synonymy see Sears, 1953, page 67

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVI, figs. 5, 7)

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 139):   Rectangular, not produced into a peak as in the other species. The apices of somatocyst hydroecium and nectosac are at the same level. Ventral facet very narrow. The lateral ridges run nearer the ventral side than in the other species, and near the base curve sharply dorsad, ending well above the lateral teeth, so that the dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral facets are incompletely and unequally divided.

Posterior nectophore:   Three times as long as wide, fragile. For a description of minor details see Sears (1953, p. 67, fig. 20C). The ventral teeth are not so markedly disparate in length as are those of C. sagittata.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XXXVI, figs. 2–4)

Bract:   The left latero-dorsal ridge extends all the way from the basal margin to the apico-dorsal ridge. The apical facet is flat and quadrilateral (see Sears, 1953, text-fig. 20D).

Gonophores:   The apico-lateral ridges, according to Sears (1953), are at the same level just above the tip of the nectosac. For minor differences from those of C. sagittata and C. dentata see Sears (1953, p. 68, text-fig. 20F). The dorsal ridge extends from the dorsal tooth more than half-way up the dorsal facet.

[FIGURE]
A
ns
c.ol
ns
hy
B
C
c.ol
hy

FIG. 139.   Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley). Polygastric phase. Anterior nectophore, × 12
A, lateral; B, oblique dorso-lateral; C, ventral view
c.ol = somatocyst; hy = hydroecium; ns = nectosac (after Kawamura, 1915, Pl. 15, figs. 29–31).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The abbreviation for somatocyst is printed
"c.ol" both in the drawing and in the caption's key.]

<<<PAGE pdf=211 file=page_211.txt>>>
[PAGE 206]

206	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Ceratocymba sagittata (Quoy & Gaimard, 1827)
Plate XXXVII, figures 1–4; text-figures 140, 141A, C

For synonymy see Sears (1953), page 63

Polygastric phase (text-fig. 140)

Anterior nectophore:   With a very long narrow pyramidal extension (E.P.) so that the apical facet characteristic of abylines is not obvious. The nectosac is very long and tubular, about twice as long as the hydroecium, whose length is, according to Sears, about one-third of the overall length of the nectophore.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 141B, D):   With a characteristic elongate left-hand (right sensu Sears, 1953) ventral tooth which is much longer than that of the opposite side. For an extended description see Sears (1953). The ventral teeth are not shown in the figure.

Eudoxid phase (see Sears, 1953, fig. 18B)

The bract has a concave apical facet and prominent lateral horns. It can readily be identified by the left lateral ridge which always joins the posterior margin. It usually does not reach the apico-dorsal ridge, though Sears (1953) has noted specimens in which it does so.

The gonophore, when well preserved, may be recognized according to Sears (1953) by: (1) the relatively small inconspicuous hook arising from the right ventral ridge and curved in toward the floor of the hydroecium; (2) the presence of serrations extending well above the level of this hook on the margin of the left ventral wing; (3) a very weak inconspicuous dorsal tooth; and (4) the lateral apical ridge next to the wall of the bract is deeper than the opposite exposed one.

[FIGURE]
T.D.
T.v.l.
S
E.p.
N.s.

FIG. 140.   Ceratocymba sagittata Q. & G. Polygastric phase. Two interlocking nectophores of a 45 mm long specimen, × 3·7, 'Discovery' St. 284.   E.p. = Pyramidal extension; N.s. = Nectosac; S. = Somatocyst; T.D. = Dorsal tooth; T.v.l. = Left ventral tooth.
[/FIGURE]

Ceratocymba intermedia Sears, 1953

Although I feel very doubtful about the specific identity of this form I quote it on the authority of Dr. Sears who has stated her reasons for considering it as specifically different from C. dentata and C. sagittata.

Dr. Sears cites three specimens or figures: (1) Bigelow (1911b), plate 12, figure 7, anterior nectophore, 7 mm in length. Specimen no longer available. (2) Moser (1925), plate 15, figure 3, anterior nectophore, 5 mm in length. Whereabouts of specimen unknown. (3) Sears (1953), text-figure 22, anterior nectophore, 7 mm in length, mutilated, deposited in Universitets Zool. Mus. København: the type specimen. Sears argument appears to be that though (1) and (2) were naturally thought to be young specimens of C. sagittata yet in her experience of considerable numbers of young anterior nectophores of C. sagittata the definitive shape found in that species has been established in every case before reaching the length of 5 mm. I feel that specimens (1) and (2) may possibly be the exceptions. I cannot at this time give any data which would throw light on the subject. The question of associa-

[HANDWRITTEN] a caret (^) is inked above the line at the end of "…(right sensu", at the right-hand edge of the type measure, with no insertion written beside it.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. In the text the pyramidal extension is
abbreviated "(E.P.)" with a capital P, while the figure caption gives it as "E.p."; both are
so printed. A faint stray dot stands after "Sears, 1953)" in the "Posterior nectophore"
paragraph.]

<<<PAGE pdf=212 file=page_212.txt>>>
[PAGE 207]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	207

[FIGURE]
A
0
10.m.m.
B¹
Apoph
B²
Cmb
W.hyd.r.
5.m.m.
0
W.hyd.l.
To.v.l.
To.l
To.r
To.d.
0
4.m.m.
N.s
Rd
To.r.
To.d
C
To.l
D
W.hyd.l
W.hyd.r.
2.m.m.
0
To.v.r.
To.v.l.'
To.r
To.l
To.d.

FIG. 141.   Ceratocymba sagittata Q. & G. Polygastric phase
A, Posterior nectophore, × 3·4, 'Discovery' St. 676; C, ostial end of same, × 9·8
Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley) Polygastric phase
B, Posterior nectophore, lateral view, × 6·5; D, Postero-lateral view of same, × 2·5, 'Discovery' St. 694
Apoph = apophysis; Cmb = comb; Ns = nectosac; R.d = dorsal ridge; To.d = dorsal (median) tooth; To.l = left dorso-lateral tooth; To.r = right dorso-lateral tooth; To.v.l = left ventral tooth; W.hyd.l = left hydroecial wing; W.hyd.r = right hydroecial wing (from Totton, 1954, fig. 79).
[/FIGURE]

tion, if any, with larger specimens would have to be considered. We are largely dependent upon inferences of this sort in building up pictures of the various parts and phases of species.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   The chief diagnostic feature cited by Sears is that the hydroecium extends to about one-half the overall length instead of one-third as in C. sagittata, so that the apical prolongation is relatively shorter than in C. sagittata, though longer than in C. dentata.

Posterior nectophore and gonophore:   Unknown.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Ceratocymba dentata (Bigelow, 1918)
Plate XXXVIII, figures 1–3

For synonymy see Sears, 1953, page 69

In a typical specimen ('Discovery' Station 2653 – see Totton, 1954) the anterior nectophore measured 11 mm in length and the posterior one 55 mm: its nectosac 45 mm × 3–5 mm.

Anterior nectophore:   The most distinctive features as described by Bigelow (1918) are (1) the

[HANDWRITTEN] a faint pencil line stands between the second and third lines of the figure caption, immediately below "A, Posterior nectophore, × 3·4, 'Discovery' St. 676; C, ostial end of same, × 9·8"; it reads, uncertainly, [?left ventral tooth omitted]. It is too faint for a confident reading.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The four drawings of text-figure 141 are
lettered A, B¹ (B with a superscript 1) and B² at the top left and centre, C at the top right,
and D at the centre right; the labels above are listed drawing by drawing in that order. The
in-drawing lettering gives the millimetre marks as "10.m.m.", "5.m.m.", "4.m.m." and "2.m.m."
with points between the letters, and the dorsal ridge as "Rd" where the caption's key gives
"R.d". One label in D is printed "To.v.l.'" with a prime. A small dark ink smudge, roughly the
shape of a blot, stands to the right of the caption's second line and again below the caption
at the same horizontal position.]

<<<PAGE pdf=213 file=page_213.txt>>>
[PAGE 208]

208	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

triangular dorsal facet with strongly bowed and serrated lateral margins and a deeply emarginated base; (2) its apex, into which the apex of the nectosac is extended, is produced into a short peak which extends beyond the apex of the somatocyst and hydroecium.

Posterior nectophore: At least three times as long as wide and opaque. Dorsal tooth larger than in the other species, and forward projecting. For detailed structure see Sears (1953, pp. 69–70, text-fig. 21); Totton (1954), Pl. X.

Eudoxid phase

Bract (see Totton, 1954, text-fig. 80):   The finding of attached, well developed eudoxids enabled me in 1954 to publish confirmation of my deduction from associations of two phases in the same catches that the left lateral ridge always joins the apico-dorsal ridge, but not the posterior margin. This is the reverse of the condition found in C. leuckarti. Sears (1953) reported that this type of bract had been taken repeatedly with the polygastric stage of this species.

Gonophore:   A larger female and smaller mirror image male usually found locked together under the bract (Totton, 1954, text-fig. 81). The structure of the gonophores is more complicated than that of any other species of siphonophore.  The implication is that the genus is highly evolved.

Genus: ABYLA Quoy & Gaimard, 1827

Pseudabyla Sears, 1953, page 49, text-figure 16, 17

Type species: Abyla trigona Quoy & Gaimard, 1827.

Through the courtesy of the Musée d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, both Dr. Sears and I have been able to make independent re-examinations of syntypes of the type species (see Sears, 1953, and Totton, 1954).

I regard the species of Abyla as the most variable of siphonophores, and the most highly evolved. The larval nectophore, however, appears not to be caducous but to persist as the anterior nectophore. As in all abylids except Bassia the somatocyst has curved over to occupy a position on the dorsal side of the hydroecium.

The generic characters were dealt with at length by Sears (1953). She made keys for nine species, and published many line drawings of the separate parts.

A great deal of material of Abyla spp. is available for the next reviewer.

Abyla trigona Quoy & Gaimard, 1827
Plate XXXVI, figures 9, 10

For synonymy see Sears, 1953, page 35
? Syn. A. carina Haeckel, 1888b

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVI, figs. 9, 10)

Anterior nectophore:   Sears described four characteristics: (1) most of the ridges are heavily and irregularly serrated, the laterals of the dorsal facet especially so; (2) the apico-dorsal facet is sharply bent upward from the insertion of the lateral ridges to the transverse apical ridge*; (3) the lateral protrusions are somewhat sharper and more prominent than those of A. carina; (4) the facets of the nectophore as a whole are depressed below the ridges surrounding them. For figures see Sears (1953), text-figures 8B, 9B, 10B.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 142A, D, E):   Sears described three characteristic features: (1) a smaller number (six to eight) of teeth on the comb than in A. carina; (2) the presence of two rows of teeth on the basal margin of the right ventral wing much as Haeckel (1888a, Pl. 35, figs. 8–9) showed them; (3) the heavier serration of the ostial teeth, more so than in any other known species of Abyla.

[FOOTNOTE] * Sears provided diagrammatic drawings to explain terminology. It should be noted that I continue to use the terms right and left in the sense opposite to that of Sears.

[NOTE: the query mark opening "? Syn. A. carina Haeckel, 1888b" is printed bare, without
square brackets; there are no printed square brackets on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=214 file=page_214.txt>>>
[PAGE 209]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	209

Eudoxid phase

At present we cannot distinguish between the eudoxids of the A. trigona group of species. There are no really satisfactory illustrations of these common animals.

Remarks:   I suspect that A. trigona and A. carina will eventually prove to be synonyms of one species. For my comments on the statement by Sears (1953, p. 32) that both Quoy & Gaimard and Haeckel were confusing two species (the same two in each case) in their accounts of A. trigona and A. carina, see Totton (1954, pp. 148–151).

[FIGURE]
A
Apoph
C.ped
R.l.
0
Cmb
R.r.
10.m.m.
W.hyd.r.
W.hyd.l.
Prot.ch.
E
N.s
R.l
Ost.
To.v.l.
W.hyd.l
B
D
Cmb.
W.hyd.r.
W.hyd.l.
C
To.v.r.
To.v.l.
To.r
To.l
To.d

FIG. 142
A. Abyla trigona Q. & G. Polygastric phase. Posterior nectophore, lateral view, × 4·2, 'Discovery' St. 2067
B. Abyla carina Haeckel. Posterior nectophore, Challenger Expedition
C. Abyla tottoni Sears. Basal part of the posterior nectophore, × 5·2, 'Discovery' St. 1178
D. Abyla trigona Q. & G. Comb of right hydroecial wing of posterior nectophore, part of the type material (Mus. d'Hist. Nat., Paris)
E. Dorsal view of the base of the posterior nectophore of the same, × 5·5
C.ped = pedicular canal; Ost = ostium; R.l = left ridge; R.r = right ridge; for other abbreviations see text-figure 141 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 75).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The five drawings of text-figure 142 are set
A (left), E (upper centre), B (upper right), D (far right) and C (lower centre-right); the
labels above are listed drawing by drawing in that visual order, not alphabetically. The
scale bar beside A is lettered "0" at the top and "10.m.m." lower down.]

<<<PAGE pdf=215 file=page_215.txt>>>
[PAGE 210]

210	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Abyla carina Haeckel, 1888
Text-figure 142B

I suspect that eventually it will become clear that A. carina is a synonym of A. trigona Quoy & Gaimard. In my experience, species of Abyla are very variable and few in number. Sears (1953) stated that A. carina shows in its anterior nectophore a number of distinguishing features, so that for the present I treat it as a separate species and cite the distinguishing features alleged by Sears.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 142B; see Sears, 1953, figs. 8A, 9A, 10A): (1) In lateral view the lower edges of the sides of the basal facet are diagonal (i.e. form an acute angle with the horizontal and only slightly curved because the dorsal teeth do not protrude below it as they do in A. trigona. (2) In side view the apico-dorsal-dorsolateral ridges of the apicodorsal facet form a diagonal to the dorsal facet.* I am not sure what Dr. Sears means, but I do not think that a distinction can be made in this type of nectophore between a trigona and a carina pattern of ridges. (3) The transverse apical ridge may be slightly elevated above the surface of the apical facets. (4) The lateral protrusions as seen in ventral or dorsal view are not prominent. (5) The ridges as a whole are not raised above the facets. (6) Most of the basal ridges are slightly serrated. (7) The nectophore is more massive than that of trigona.

Posterior nectophore:   Sears admitted that the general shape is not sufficiently characteristic to separate it from that of trigona, but notes some differences. These appear to me to be of a kind that is very variable.

Eudoxid phase

It has not been determined whether the eudoxids are characteristically different from those of trigona.

Abyla haeckeli Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908
Plate XXXVI, figures 6, 8

For synonymy see Sears, 1953, page 39

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVI, figs. 6, 8)

Anterior nectophore:   There is a horizontal ridge dividing off from the ventral facet – as found in trigona (see Bigelow 1911b, fig. 3) – an apicoventral facet (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 13, fig. 1 and Sears, 1953, fig. 3).

I have re-examined the nectophore I described in 1932, which Sears said might equally well be that of ingeborgae. My identification was correct.

Posterior nectophore (young specimens):   (1) the lateral teeth round the ostium lie closer to the dorsal tooth than to the ventral ones. (2) There are only two or three teeth on the comb. We need a figure of a mature specimen.

Eudoxid phase

Bract:   The 'cleft' shown in my (1932) text-figure was as I stated, an artefact, which distorted the basal facet. Apparently Sears excluded my specimen from haeckeli thinking that this was of a specific nature.

Gonophore (see text-fig. 143).

[FOOTNOTE] * For nomenclature of ridges and facets see Sears (1953, fig. 3). Since the lateral ridges of the apicodorsal facet may be said to be divided into two at their junction with the lateral ridge – the one between the apical ventrolateral facet and the dorsolateral facet – I have distinguished between the two parts by naming the facets between which the particular part runs.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. In the "Anterior nectophore" paragraph of
A. haeckeli the first citation is printed "Bigelow 1911b" without a comma after the surname
while the second in the same sentence is printed "Bigelow, 1911b" with one; both are as
printed. The parenthesis opened at "(1) In lateral view the lower edges … as they do in
A. trigona." is not closed in the print. Faint stray ink specks stand in the left margin
beside the "Abyla haeckeli" heading and beside the line "figure of a mature specimen."]

<<<PAGE pdf=216 file=page_216.txt>>>
[PAGE 211]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	211

[NOTE: the upper part of this page is set in two unequal columns — a narrow left column
holding text-figure 143 and its caption, and a wide right column of text beginning with the
heading "Abyla ingeborgae Sears, 1953". Below them the type returns to the full measure at
"than basal ventrolateral. (5) …". The lower part of the page is again in two columns — the
left holding the "Abyla bicarinata" text, the right holding text-figure 144 and its caption.
Each band is given here left column first, then right column.]

[FIGURE]
1MM.

FIG. 143. Abyla haeckeli L. & v. R. Eudoxid phase. Gonophore, × 16, Gt. Barrier Reef (from Totton, 1932, fig. 13).
[/FIGURE]

Abyla ingeborgae Sears, 1953

A. ingeborgae Totton, 1954

This species resembles A. haeckeli in many ways. The anterior nectophores of A. haeckeli reported on by Browne (1926) from the Indian Ocean prove to be intermediate in total size, the relative size of the apicoventral facet, and the size and position of the lateral projections (see Totton, 1954, p. 151). Specimens of Abyla spp. do not all fit neatly into Sears's categories.

Whilst I am still not satisfied that this form is a distinct species I list the characters said by Sears to differentiate it from haeckeli.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   (1) Ventral facet only about one half as wide at the insertion of the horizontal ridge as it is high from this point to its basal tip (ab = ½ cd, text-fig. 144; Sears fig. 13E).   (2) Width of nectophore only about two-thirds its height. The lateral protrusions relatively inconspicuous and relatively high up. (3) Horizontal ridge in side view well above middle of somatocyst, not well below as in haeckeli. (4) Apical ventrolateral facet, in consequence, smaller than basal ventrolateral. (5) Dorsal facet is almost a perfect rectangle (not tapered at top as in schmidti or bowed on sides as in some species). (6) The only serrations are at the base of dorsal wall of hydroecium.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 145A, B):   (1) Comb has five teeth. (2) Basal border of right (sensu Sears) ventral wing 'more nearly triangular' (? straight) than concave. (3) Dorsal tooth smaller and less prominent than in haeckli. (4) Right lateral tooth almost as large as left, with a well defined ridge (in haeckeli right tooth is the smaller). (5) Ventral extent of basal margin of right (sensu Sears) ventral wing not delimited by strong teeth, and ventral margin not as thickened as in haeckeli.

In my experience all such characters are very variable.

Eudoxid phase

Bract resembles that of haeckeli with conspicuous dorsal tooth and ridge.

Abyla bicarinata Moser, 1925
Plate XXXVIII, figures 4–7

A. bicarinata Sears, 1953
A. brownia Sears, 1953

This species is characterised by the width of the nectophores.   A complete polygastric specimen was taken on October 16, 1951, at 'Discovery' Station 2893 in a haul from 92 m to the surface. The following description is taken from Sears (1953).

Polygastric phase (Pl. XXXVIII, figs. 4–7)

Anterior nectophore:   Wider than long, lateral ridges forming wing-like expansions. Edges of the facets rounded and tumid. There is no depression or furrow ventral to transverse apical ridge. Owing to the peculiar arrangement of facets and ridges, in a lateral view, the whole of the somatocyst may be seen through the ventrolateral facet.

[FIGURE]
a
c
b
v.c
d

FIG. 144.   Abyla ingeborgae Sears Polygastric phase. Anterior nectophore (schematic).
v.c = ventral facet; for other lettering see text.
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: "haeckli" in item (3) of the "Posterior nectophore" paragraph is so printed, evidently
a printer's error for "haeckeli". The query in "(? straight)" is printed inside round
parentheses, not square brackets; there are no printed square brackets on this page. The scale
bar of text-figure 143 is lettered "1MM." in small capitals, set horizontally above the bar.]

<<<PAGE pdf=217 file=page_217.txt>>>
[PAGE 212]

212	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Posterior nectophore:   As wide as long. Left (sensu Sears) lateral ridge as conspicuous as right one: both much expanded. Right ventral wing almost semi-circular. Ostial teeth strong and prominent. Comb with four to seven teeth, six teeth on inner, basal part of right ventral wing.

The alleged posterior nectophore figured by Moser (1925, Pl. 19, figs. 7–9) does not belong to bicarinata, as pointed out by Sears. It may belong to schmidti.

[FIGURE]
A
Apoph.
C.ped
R.l.
Cmb.
W.hyd.l.
R.r.
Ns
W.hyd.r.
To.v.l.
To.v.r.
To.l
To.r
To.d
B
Cmb.
R.l.
W.hyd.r.
R.r.
Prot.ch.
W.v.l.
W.v.r.
To.r.
To.d
5.mm.
C
To.d
To.r
To.l
Ost.
Ns
W.hyd.l.

FIG. 145
A, B. Abyla ingeborgae Sears. Polygastric phase. Posterior nectophores, × 3·8, 'Discovery' Sts. 706, 2639, 1,200–600 m. Each was associated with anterior nectophores of the species
C. Abyla schmidti Sears. Basal view of the posterior nectophore of the [?holotype], × 4, 'Discovery' St. 1581
Apoph = apophysis; C.ped = pedicular canal; Cmb = comb; Ns = nectosac; Ost = ostium; R.l = left ridge; R.r = right ridge; Prot.ch = chin-shaped protuberance; To.d = dorsal tooth; To.l, To.r = left and right tooth; To.v.l, To.v.r = left and right ventral tooth; W.hyd.l = left hydroecial ridge; W.hyd.r = right hydroecial ridge; W.v.l = left ventral wing; W.v.r = right ventral wing (from Totton, 1954, fig. 78).
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

In view of the known variability of species of Abyla I do not think that there is reason to regard the one anterior nectophore named A. brownia by Sears (1953) as sufficient evidence of the existence of a separate species.

Abyla schmidti Sears, 1953
Text-figures 145C, 146, 147, 148

Abyla schmidti Totton, 1954

Polygastric phase (Text-fig. 146A, 148A.)

Anterior nectophore (text-figs. 147A–D, 148B, C):   According to Sears it is differentiated by its proportionately larger apicodorsal facet, and a dorsal facet that tapers toward the base, rather than bulges in the middle as in A. trigona/carina.

[HANDWRITTEN] in the figure caption, the words following "Basal view of the posterior nectophore" and preceding ", × 4," are struck through with a heavy ink line. Under the strike the wording reads, uncertainly, "of the holotype"; "of the" is legible and the following word is not certain, so it is given as [?holotype] above.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The three drawings of text-figure 145 are
lettered A (left), B (centre) and C (right); the labels above are listed drawing by drawing.
The in-drawing lettering gives "Prot.ch." letter-spaced ("P r o t . c h ."). The scale bar
beside C is lettered "5.mm." above five equal divisions, which confirms the numeral as 5.
"A. trigona/carina" is printed with a solidus between the two epithets.]

<<<PAGE pdf=218 file=page_218.txt>>>
[PAGE 213]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	213

[FIGURE]
A
R.r.
N.post.
C.ped
Som.
N.ant.
R.l.
Cmb.
N.S.
B
Apoph
Cmb.
Prot.ch.
C
Cmb.
R.r.
Prot.ch.
0
5mm.
D
Apoph
C.ped
Cmb.
R.r.
R.l.
W.hyd.r.
W.hyd.l.

FIG. 146.   Abyla schmidti Sears. Polygastric phase
A, whole specimen, 'Discovery' St. 1581, × 6·4; B, C, D, posterior nectophores. B, × 6·4, 'Discovery' St. 1587; C, × 6·4, N.W. Indian Ocean; D, × 6·4, 'Discovery' St. 1585. In D a break in the pedicular canal indicates a shortening of the apophysis
Apoph = apophysis; Cmb = comb; C.ped = pedicular canal; N.ant, N.post = anterior and posterior nectophores; N.s = nectosac; Prot.ch = chin-shaped protuberance; R.l, R.r = left and right ridge; W.hyd.l, W.hyd.r = left and right hydroecial wings (from Totton, 1954, fig. 73).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: this page carries nothing but the running head, folio, text-figure 146 and its caption;
there is no body text. The four drawings are lettered A (across the top), then B, C and D
(left to right below); the labels above are listed drawing by drawing. The nectosac in A is
lettered "N.S." with both letters capital, where the caption's key gives "N.s". The scale bar
beneath C is lettered "0" at the left and "5mm." at the right, over five equal divisions.
There are no printed square brackets on this page.]

<<<PAGE pdf=219 file=page_219.txt>>>
[PAGE 214]

214	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Posterior nectophore (text-figs. 146B–D, 147E–G, 148D):   Right ventral wing expanded, with a triangular protrusion between the two basal rows of teeth below which it hangs; the inner row strongly developed. Left ventral wing with from four to five large teeth.

Eudoxid phase

The bracts and gonophores have so far not been found to be specifically distinguishable.

[FIGURE]
Apical
A
Proj.ang.
D
V
N.s.
C.rad.lat
H
Oral
B
0
3.mm.
Proj.ang.
C.rad.v.
C
Proj.ang.
Som.
N.s.
C.rad.d.
V
D
Ns
H
Proj.ang.
Som.
Cmb.
E
W.hyd.r.
N.s.
To.l
W.hyd.l.
To.r
To.d.
To.v.l
To.v.r.
Cmb.
W.hyd.r.
F
W.hyd.l.
N.s.
Prot.ch.
To.v.
To.r.
To.d.
G
Prot.ch.

FIG. 147.   Abyla schmidti Sears. Polygastric phase
A–D, anterior; E–G, posterior nectophores, × 5·5. A–D, 'Discovery' St. 1588, 250–100 m; E–G, three views of the ostial end of a specimen from 'Discovery' St. 1587 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 76)
Proj.ang = angular projection; other lettering as in figure 145.
[/FIGURE]

Abyla tottoni Sears, 1953
Plate XXXIX

A. tottoni Totton, 1954 (text-fig. 75C, Pl. IX)

The following description is largely based on that of Sears.

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore:   Nearly as wide as high, tumid, the ridges indistinct. The lateral protrusions more marked than in those of species with expanded lateral ridges. At the insertion of the horizontal ridge the width of the ventral facet nearly equals its length from that point to its basal tip. There is a deep depression just ventrad to the transverse apical ridge.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 142C):   Three-quarters as wide as long (exclusive of apophysis). The 'dorsal' ridge (really the left ridge) is so expanded towards the apex that it curves sharply before merging with the dorsal tooth. The whole margin of the left (right sensu Sears) ventral wing may be

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. In the first line the en-rule of "147E–G" is
over-inked into a heavy blot, so that at first sight it looks like a comma followed by a dash;
the reading "147E–G" is not in doubt from the parallel "146B–D" and "A–D, anterior; E–G,
posterior" in the caption. The seven drawings of text-figure 147 are lettered A, B, C, D across
the upper row and E, F, G across the lower; the labels above are listed drawing by drawing.
The scale bar above B is lettered "0" at the left and "3.mm." at the right, over three equal
divisions. A faint stray ink mark stands in the upper left margin above "Posterior".]

<<<PAGE pdf=220 file=page_220.txt>>>
[PAGE 215]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	215

[FIGURE]
A
N.ant.
Som.
Apoph
N.post.
Cmb.
W.hyd.r.
W.hyd.l.
Prot.ch.
To.r.
To.d.
B
Som.
H
Ns
0
5.m.m.
C
Som.
H
Ns
D
Apoph
C.ped
Ns
R.r.
R.l.
W.hyd.r.
W.hyd.l.
Prot.ch.
To.v.r.
To.v.l.
To.r.
To.l
To.d.

FIG. 148.   Abyla schmidti Sears. Polygastric phase
A, whole specimen, × 5·5, 'Discovery' St. 1581; B, lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 5·4, N.W. Indian Ocean; C, view of A from above, × 5·5; D, baso-lateral view of the posterior nectophore, × 5·6, 'Discovery' St. 1586; abbreviations as in figures 141, 142, 147 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 77)
[/FIGURE]

serrated, and there may be from twelve to thirteen teeth on its inner basal margin. There may be from twelve to thirteen teeth on the base of the smaller wing, the ventral corner of which may be more rounded than shown in Sears figure 15B. On the comb there may be eleven teeth including two lesser ones between 1 and 2, and 2 and 3 of Sear's figure 15B.

Eudoxid phase – not identified.

Abyla peruana Sears, 1953

Described from a single anterior nectophore. Whether it will prove to be a distinct species time will show.

For a description and figure see Sears, 1953, page 45, figures 8D, 9D, and 10D.

The posterior nectophore and eudoxid are unknown.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The same figure is cited twice in the paragraph
after the figure, first as "Sears figure 15B" and then as "Sear's figure 15B" with an apostrophe;
both are so printed. The four drawings of text-figure 148 are lettered A (left), B (upper
centre-right), C (lower centre) and D (right); the labels above are listed drawing by drawing.
The vertical scale bar beside B is lettered "0" at the top and "5.m.m." at the foot, over five
equal divisions. A small stray speck stands just to the right of the label "N.ant." in A.]

<<<PAGE pdf=221 file=page_221.txt>>>
[PAGE 216]

216	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

Sub-family ii: ABYLOPSINAE Totton, 1954

This sub-family contains four species belonging to the genera Abylopsis, Enneagonum and Bassia. Enneagonum has only one species, like Bassia, and in it no posterior nectophore is ever developed. On this account it used to be included in another family. But its affinities with Abylopsis spp. were pointed out thirty years ago by Totton (1932). In these three genera the anterior nectophore has no apical facet but a ridge, formed by the junction of two lateral facets. The most characteristic feature in which the polygastric phase of abylopsines differs from that of abylines is the way in which anterior and posterior nectophores articulate with one another. In abylines the posterior nectophore, after issuing from the tunnel-like hydroecium, hangs below or follows after with its long axis in line with the long axis of the hydroecium and nectosac of the anterior nectophore. But in abylopsines these two long axes of the anterior and posterior nectophores form an angle of about 45° to each other (cf. Totton, 1954, text-figs. 73A and 82). As a consequence, when the animal is swimming horizontally, the dorsal facet of the anterior nectophore of abylines is on the underside; whilst in abylopsines it is nearly vertical, and the apical end of the posterior nectophore (excluding the pedicel or apophysis, which lies in the hydroecium) articulates with almost the whole of the ventral facet of the anterior nectophore. In abylines this ventral facet, which lies uppermost during horizontal progression, ends, as a rule, in a posterior tooth which hooks over the dorsal facet of the posterior nectophore. The ridge, which in abylines separates the dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral facets of the anterior nectophore, is represented in abylopsines by an elongated homologue the 'horizontal ridge'. Having no longitudinal lateral ridge to join onto, as in abylines, this horizontal ridge is produced till it meets the lateral margins or ridges of the dorsal facet. Anterior nectophores of abylopsines have no apical facets. Instead the apices of the pentagonal dorsal and ventral facets are joined together by a ridge. The dorsal facet itself in Abylopsis and Bassia is shaped as in Ceratocymba dentata and C. sagittata. But in Enneagonum it bears a ridge as in the Diphyinae. The posterior nectophore, in those abylopsine species where one is developed differs from those of Abylines in having a flap on the inner side of both right and left ventro-lateral ridges or wings.

The abylopsine eudoxid phase also differs from that of abylines, so that the division of abylids into two sub-families seems to be a natural one. I have already (1932) pointed to the affinities between Enneagonum and the other three abylopsines.

Genus: ABYLOPSIS Chun, 1888

Type species: Abylopsis tetragona (Otto, 1823).

It was Chun who substituted the present name Abylopsis for the old one Calpe (preocc. Lepidoptera).

The somatocyst of the anterior nectophore extends well over to the ventral side of the hydroecium, whose lower walls are extended beyond both ventral and basal facets. The apical part of the nectosac extends well up between the somatocyst and the dorsal facet. The dorsal facet is flat and bears no median ridge. A posterior nectophore is produced. In the bract of the eudoxid the phyllocyst has well developed ventro-lateral branches. There is a rectangular apical bracteal facet.

Abylopsis tetragona (Otto, 1823)
Plate XL, figures 1, 3

For synonymy see Bigelow, 1911b, page 224

One of the very abundant and well-known 'Diphyids'.

Complete specimens of the polygastric phase of this species can be readily recognized by the

[NOTE: the sub-family number in "Sub-family ii: ABYLOPSINAE" is a lower-case roman ii, as
printed. There are no printed square brackets on this page. In "for the old one Calpe" a small
stray ink flick sits above the final e of "one", giving it the look of a grave accent; it is a
printing blemish, and the word is printed "one". The last line of the page, "Complete specimens
of the polygastric phase of this species can be readily recognized by the", is over-inked and
appears bolder than the rest of the type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=222 file=page_222.txt>>>
[PAGE 217]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	217

relatively long posterior nectophore, which is about three times as long as wide, whereas in Abylopsis eschscholtzi the posterior nectophore is a little less than twice as long as wide. I described in 1932 how the main propulsive jet is made by the posterior nectophore, and how the intermittent and more rapid contraction of the anterior nectosac serves to alter course. These observations were repeated by Dr. D. A. Boag at Naples in 1961.*

[FIGURE]
0
10mm
To.r.
R.r.
R.d
R.l.
N.post.
N.ant.
[?Sc n.]
To.d.
Ret.
Ns.obs.
To.l.
C.pa
C.ped
C.ped
To.v.r.
To.v.l.
W.hyd.r.
W.hyd.l.
Cmb.
H

FIG. 149.   Abylopsis tetragona (Otto). Polygastric phase
The two nectophores rigidly locked together as in life, × 4·2. Abbreviations as in figures 141, 142, 147 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 82)
[/FIGURE]

Polygastric phase

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 149):   The most reliable way of distinguishing it from that of eschscholtzi is, as a rule, to examine the lateral radial canals. In tetragona these canals rise towards the apex of the nectosac in an ascending loop before running down to the circular canal. In eschscholtzi they do not. The figures given by Bigelow (1911b, Pl. 14, figs. 6 and 1) are excellent and make this point quite clear. The other distinguishing features are more subtle and less reliable.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 150):   About three times as long as broad. There is a peculiar arrangement of the radial canals which virtually increases the number from four to four-and-a-half (see Pl. XL, fig. 1; and Sears, 1953, fig. 25D – a ventral view – and Totton, 1954, text-fig. 83A). From the rete at the junction between the circular (ostial) canal and the ventral radial canal there arises towards the left a blind canal, separated at its apex from a short, blind down-growth from the left lateral radial canal, at a point where it is deflected to the left. The new half canal lies under the left ventral ridge.

The upper half of the hydroecial canal is covered by a flap of the left hydroecial wing or left ventral ridge. A comb or 'Leiste' bearing nine teeth arises from the upper half of the inner side of the right hydroecial wing or right ventral ridge. In Abyla this comb arises from the outer part of the wing. The outer reflexed part of the left hydroecial wing is locked in position between the comb and a small mamma-like projection from the middle of the hydroecial wing (text-fig. 150). The apical wall of the posterior nectophore articulates with almost the whole of the ventral wall of the anterior nectophore.

[FOOTNOTE] * Communicated in litt. to author.

15

[NOTE: the "15" standing alone at the foot of the page, at the left below the footnote, is a
printer's signature mark, not a folio. There are no printed square brackets on this page. One
label in text-figure 149, at the upper right beside the anterior nectophore, is read only
uncertainly: it appears to be "Sc n." (or "Sc.n."), and no such abbreviation is given in the
keys of text-figures 141, 142 or 147 to which the caption refers; it is marked [?Sc n.] above.
The horizontal scale bar is lettered "0" at the left and "10mm" at the right, over ten equal
divisions.]

<<<PAGE pdf=223 file=page_223.txt>>>
[PAGE 218]

218	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

[FIGURE]
H
Cmb.
5.mm.
H
To.l.
To.r
To.v.l.
A
To.v.r.
R.d
C.rad.d.
N.s
R.l.
C.rad.lat
C.rad.v.
Cmb.
H
W.hyd.l.
W.hyd.r.
B
Str.m
R.d
C.circ.
C
Apoph
C.ped
Cmb.
W.hyd.
H
W.hyd.l.
Str.m

FIG. 150.   Abylopsis tetragona (Otto). Polygastric phase. Posterior nectophore
A, latero-ventral view, × 5; B, a section across the same, just above the locking tooth of the right wing, × 8·8; C, apical view, × 8·8. Abbreviations as in figures 141, 142, 147 (from Totton, 1954, fig. 83)
[/FIGURE]

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XL, fig. 3)

(Totton, 1932, text-fig. 17C).

Nomenclature:   It is called an 'Agalaisma' (an old synonym of Abylopsis).

Bract:   The lateral facets are deep, so that the basal cross ridge (see Totton, 1932, text-fig. 17C ab) lies far below the level of the large lateral branches of the phyllocyst. The basal-sagittal ridge is very short.

Gonophore:   Comparatively narrow and elongate with shallow ridges and long teeth. For further details see Sears, 1953, page 83.

Abylopsis eschscholtzi (Huxley, 1859)
Plate XL, figures 2, 4, 6

Aglaismoides eschscholtzii Huxley, 1859

Less commonly taken than A. tetragona.

Polygastric phase (Pl. XL, fig. 2)

A specimen of the polygastric phase is relatively shorter than one of A. tetragona.

Anterior nectophore (Pl. XL, fig. 4):   The apex of the nectosac does not extend as far as the apex of the main part of the somatocyst and the bases of the lateral radial canals do not form an upward loop. The ridges are more marked and serrated than are those of tetragona.

Posterior nectophore (Pl. XL, fig. 6):   Considerably less than twice as long as broad. Only four, regular radial canals. The apophysis relatively a little larger than in tetragona. Each hydroecial wing or ventrolateral ridge has in the hydroecial region a secondary flap. Their inner edges meet and fuse along the proximal half of their length to roof over a hydroecial tube. There may be from four to eight teeth on the ventrobasal curve of the left-hand (Sears' right) flap, and three or four in the same region of the smaller right-hand one, in the same region indicated by a dotted line by Sears (1953, fig. 25E). This smaller flap is the homologue of the comb in tetragona (see Sears, 1953, fig. 25C, E). The basal rim of the hydroecial cavity is much more simple than in tetragona. It is a simple, serrated semi-circular rim with two ventro-lateral teeth.

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The three drawings of text-figure 150 are
lettered A (left), B (centre) and C (right); the labels above are listed drawing by drawing.
The vertical scale bar in A is lettered "5.mm." at its top. In C the label at the right-hand
side is printed "W.hyd." with an indistinct terminal letter that cannot be read with confidence
(the corresponding label in B is "W.hyd.r."); it is given as "W.hyd." above. The species epithet
is printed "eschscholtzi" in the species heading and "eschscholtzii" with a double i in the
synonymy line below it; both are as printed. The bract's synonym in the "Nomenclature"
paragraph is printed 'Agalaisma', while the synonymy line above gives the genus as
"Aglaismoides"; both are as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=224 file=page_224.txt>>>
[PAGE 219]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	219

Eudoxid phase

Bract:   The basosagittal ridge is much longer than that of the bract of tetragona, the basal cross ridge of the lateral facet higher up, and the lateral ridges of the dorsal facet slope in towards the apical facet instead of being vertical as in tetragona (see Bigelow, 1911b, Pl. 15, fig. 1, and Sears, 1953, fig. 2C, D).

Genus: BASSIA L. Agassiz, 1862

Sphenoides Huxley, 1859

A monotypic genus for B. bassensis (Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834), an abundant species well described and figured by Huxley (1859), Gegenbaur (1859) and Haeckel (1888b).

The eudoxid phase is called a 'sphenoides' from a prior name of Huxley, 1859.

The edges of the ridges of specimens of bassensis are opaque by reflected light.

The somatocyst of the anterior nectophore does not extend over to the ventral side of the hydroecium. The apex of the nectosac does not extend up between the somatocyst and the dorsal facet. In the eudoxid phase the bract has an apical ridge and its phyllocyst lacks ventro-lateral branches. The ventral facet of the anterior nectophore has no median ridge.

The generic name Bassia was first published by Blainville (1830) for a manuscript name (nomen nudum) of Quoy & Gaimard. Sphenoides Huxley seems to have priority over it, but is a nomen oblatum.

Bassia bassensis (Quoy & Gaimard, (1833) 1834)
Plate XL, figure 5

For synonymy see Bigelow, 1911b

Polygastric phase

(Text-fig. 151A.)   The posterior nectophore may be replaced by a reserve bud.

Anterior nectophore (text-fig. 151B):   Resembling that of Abylopsis eschscholtzi but the somatocyst has no apical projection and it does not extend into the apico-ventral part of the nectophore. The basal part of the hydroecium does not project below the basal (ostial) facet. The apex of the nectosac, which is small, does not extend much above the apex of the hydroecium or the base of the somatocyst. The hydroecium is rather shallow and has a flared opening.

Posterior nectophore (text-fig. 152; see also Sears, 1953, fig. 28C):   Resembling that of Abylopsis

[FIGURE]
A
B

FIG. 151.   Bassia bassensis (Q. & G.). Polygastric phase
A, whole specimen; B, lateral view of the anterior nectophore (from Totton & Fraser, 1955)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. Text-figure 151 carries no lettering at all
apart from the two drawing letters A and B. The folio "219" at the head of the page is
over-inked and appears bolder than the running head beside it.]

<<<PAGE pdf=225 file=page_225.txt>>>
[PAGE 220]

220	[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

eschscholtzi. The median-dorsal ridge is suppressed (see my 1932 fig. 18). The ostial end is twisted so that the posterior end of the right lateral ridge and the keel-like tooth of the left ventral ridge come to lie almost in the sagittal plane. The inner flaps of the ventral wings or ridges appear to be fused to roof over the hydroecium in the proximal half of its length. The broadened basal end of the left ventral flap and the basal rim of the hydroecium are serrated.

Eudoxid phase (Pl. XL, fig. 5)

Bract:   There is a long baso-sagittal ridge as in Abylopsis eschscholtzi but an apical ridge replaces an apical facet.

There are no lateral branches of the phyllocyst, but there is a large apical and a long narrow basal branch.

Genus: ENNEAGONUM Quoy & Gaimard, 1827

Cuboides Q. & G., 1827
Cuboides Bigelow, 1911b

Monotypic genus for E. hyalinum Q. & G., 1827.

If a suitable specimen of E. hyalinum – there is some variation – is orientated as in my (1932) text-figure 16 it will be seen that its features are homologous with those of Abylopsis and Bassia spp., except for the presence of a dorsal ridge. This was emphasized by Sears (1953), having been previously referred to by Huxley (1859) and Totton (1932). No posterior nectophore is produced.

[FIGURE]
1MM.

FIG. 152.   Bassia bassensis (Q. & G.) Polygastric phase. Dorsal view of the posterior nectophore, × 8·5 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 18).
[/FIGURE]

[FIGURE]
r.d.m
1MM

FIG. 153.   Enneagonum hyalinum Q. & G. Polygastric phase
Lateral view, × 8 (from Totton, 1932, fig. 16)
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The lower half of the page carries two figures
side by side, text-figure 152 with its caption at the left and the larger text-figure 153 with
its caption at the right; they are given here left first, then right. The genus synonymy prints
"Cuboides" on two successive lines, once for Q. & G., 1827 and once for Bigelow, 1911b; both
lines are as printed. The scale bar of text-figure 152 is lettered "1MM." with a final point,
that of text-figure 153 "1MM" without one; in both the numeral one is drawn as a plain vertical
stroke and MM in small capitals. A small stray comma-like speck stands between "viously" and
"referred" in "having been previously referred to by Huxley".]

<<<PAGE pdf=226 file=page_226.txt>>>
[PAGE 221]

[RUNNING HEAD] SYSTEMATIC SECTION: FAMILY 15 ABYLIDAE	221

Enneagonum hyalinum Q. & G., 1827
Text-figure 153

Cuboides vitreus Q. & G., 1827; Bigelow, 1911b
Abyla vogtii Huxley, 1859
Enneagonum hyalinum Totton, 1932

Polygastric phase

(Text-fig. 153.)   No posterior nectophore is budded.

The distinguishing features are the dorsal ridge and the elongated somatocyst. For minute details see Sears (1953, p. 99).

Eudoxid phase

Bract:   Cubical, the basal ridge being the homologue of the cross ridge (Totton, 1932, text-fig. 17d) of Abylopsis tetragona. The baso-sagittal ridge has disappeared, as has the basal branch of the phyllocyst.

Gonophore:   This has been well described and figured by Sears (1953, fig. 29).

[NOTE: no printed square brackets on this page. The type occupies only the upper quarter of the
page; the remaining three-quarters are blank. This is the last page of the systematic section
and there is no catchword or signature mark at the foot.]

<<<PAGE pdf=227 file=page_227.txt>>>
[PAGE 222]

REFERENCES

AGASSIZ, A. 1863. (On Nanomia cara.) Proc. Boston Soc. nat. Hist. 9: 180-1.
—— 1865. North American Acalephae. Ill. Cat. Mus. comp. Zool. Harv. 2: 234 pp., 360 figs.
AGASSIZ, A. & MAYER, A. G. 1902. Reports of the scentific research expedition to the tropical Pacific. III. The Medusae. Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 26: 139-76, 14 pls.
AGASSIZ, L. 1862. Tabular view of the whole order Hydroida. Contr. nat. Hist. U.S.A. 4: (4), 366-72, 1 pl.
ALLMAN, J. G. 1853. On the anatomy and physiology of Cordylophora, a contribution to our knowledge of the Tubularian Zoophytes. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. 1853: 367-84.
—— 1859. Notes on the Hydroid Zoophytes. Ann. Mag. nat. Hist. Lond. (3), 4: 137-44.
—— 1871. A monograph of the gymnoblastic or tubularian Hydroids. Ray Soc. Lond. xxiv + 450, 23 pls.

BARHAM, E. G. 1963. Siphonophores and the deep-scattering layer. Science, N.Y. 140: 826-28.
BEDOT, M. 1888. Sur l'Agalma clausi n.sp. Rev. suisse zool. 5: 73-91, 2 pls.
—— 1893a. Bathyphysa grimaldii (nova species), siphonophore bathypelagique d'Atlantique Nord. Res. Camp. Sci. Monaco. 5: 10 pp., 1 pl.
—— 1893b. Revision de la famille des Forskaliidae. Rev. suisse zool. 1: 231-54.
—— 1896. Les siphonophores de la Baie d'Amboine. Étude suivie d'une revision de la famille des Agalmidae. Rev. suisse. zool. 3: 367-414, 12 pls.
—— 1904. Siphonophores provenant des campagnes du yacht 'Princesse Alice', 1892-1902. Res. Camp. Sci. Monaco. 27: 1-27, 4 pls.
BIGELOW, H. B. 1911a. Biscayan plankton collected during a cruise of H.M.S. 'Research', 1900. Part XIII, The Siphonophora. Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond. (Zool.). 10: 337-58, 1 pl.
—— 1911b. The Siphonophorae. Reports of the scientific research expedition to the tropical Pacific . . . Albatross . . . XXIII. Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 38: (2), 173-402, 32 pls.
—— 1913. Medusae and Siphonophorae collected by the U.S. Fisheries Steamer 'Albatross' in the north-western Pacific, 1906. Proc. U.S. nat. Mus. 44: 1-119, 6 pls.
—— 1918. Some Medusae and Siphonophorae from the western Atlantic. Bull Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 62: 363-442, 8 pls.
—— 1919. Contributions to the biology of the Philippine Archipelago and adjacent regions: Hydromedusae, siphonophores and ctenophores of the 'Albatross' Philippine Expedition. Bull. U.S. nat. Mus. 100: (i), (5), 279-362, 35 figs.
—— 1931. Siphonophorae of the 'Arcturus' Oceanographic Expedition. Zoologica, N.Y. 8: (11), 525-92, 35 figs.
BIGELOW, H. B. & LESLIE, M. 1930. Reconnaissance of the waters and plankton of Monterey Bay, 1928. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 70: 429-581, 43 figs.
BIGELOW, H. B. & SEARS, M. 1937. Siphonophorae. Rep. Danish oceanogr. Exped. Medit. II. Biology. H.2: 1-144, 83 figs.
BLAINVILLE, H. M. de. 1830. Zoophytes. Dict. Sci. Nat. Paris. 60: 1-548, 68 pls.
—— 1834. Manuel d'actinologie ou de zoophytologie. 1-694, 100 pls.
BORY DE ST. VINCENT. 1804. (See under ST.)
BOURNE, G. C. 1889. Report of a trawling cruise in H.M.S. 'Research' off the south-west coast of Ireland. J. mar. biol. Assoc. U.K. 1: 306-23.
BRANDT, J. F. 1835. Polypus. Acalephas Discophoras et Siphonophoras, nec non Echinodermata continens. Prodromus descriptionis animalium ab H. Mertensio in orbis terrarum circumnavigatione observatum. Fasc. 1, 1-76. St. Petersburg: Graeff.
BROOKS, W. K. 1886. The life-history of the Hydromedusae. A discussion of the origin of the Medusae and of the significance of metagenesis. Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 3: (12), 359-430, 4 pls.
BROOKS, W. K. & CONKLIN, E. G. 1891. On the structure and development of the gonophores of a certain siphonophoran belonging to the order Auronectae (Haeckel). Johns Hopk. Univ. Circ. 10: 87-9, 1 pl.
BROWNE, E. T. 1900. The fauna and flora of Valencia Harbour on the west coast of Ireland. Part 1. 1. Notes on the pelagic fauna (1895-1898). Proc. Irish Acad. (3), 5: 669-93, 1 pl.
—— 1926. Siphonophorae from the Indian Ocean. Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond. (Zool.). (2), 19: 55-86.
BUSCH, W. 1851. Beobachtungen über Anatomie und Entwickelung einiger wirbelosen Seetiere. Berlin. 69-143, 17 pls.

CACHON, J. 1953. Morphologie et cycle évolutif de Diplomorpha paradoxa (Rose et Cachon), péridinien parasite des siphonophores. Bull. Soc. Zool. France. 78: 408-14, 5 figs.

222

[NOTE: REFERENCES section begins on this page. Printed folio 222 = PDF page 227, offset printed = PDF - 5. 32 reference entries on this page. Author surnames are printed in small capitals; transcribed here in full capitals. The em-rule repeat-author convention "——" is preserved verbatim and not expanded.]
[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page.]
[NOTE: apparent printer's errors preserved as printed: "scentific" for "scientific" in AGASSIZ & MAYER 1902; "Bull Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv." without a period after "Bull" in BIGELOW 1918; "Rev. suisse. zool." with a period after "suisse" in BEDOT 1896; "wirbelosen" for "wirbellosen" in BUSCH 1851.]

<<<PAGE pdf=228 file=page_228.txt>>>
[PAGE 223]

[RUNNING HEAD] REFERENCES	223

CHAMISSO, A. DE & EYSENHARDT, C. G. 1821. De animalibus quibusdam e classe vermium Linneana . . . fasc. 2. Nova Acta Leop. Carol. 10: 342-74, 10 pls.
CHIAJE, S. delle. 1830-31. Memorie sulla storia e notomia degli Animali senza vertebre del Regno di Napoli. 4, Atlas. 1823-31, Napoli.
—— 1841. Descrizione e notomia degli Animali Invertebrati della Sicilia citeriore osservati vivi negli anni 1822-30, 6-7, Atlas 181 pls., Napoli.
CHUN, C. 1882. Ueber die cyclische Entwickelung und die Verwandtschaftsverhältnisse der Siphonophoren. S.B. preuss. Akad. Wiss. for 1882: 1155-72, 1 pl.
—— 1885. Ueber die cyclische Entwickelung der Siphonophoren. 2. S.B. preuss. Akad. Wiss. for 1885: 511-29, 1 pl.
—— 1886. Ueber Bau und Entwickelung der Siphonophoren. S.B. preuss. Akad. Wiss. for 1886: 681-8.
—— 1887. Zur Morphologie der Siphonophoren. 2. Ueber die postembryonale Entwickelung von Physalia. Zool. Anz. 10: 557-61, 574-77.
—— 1888a. Bericht über eine nach den Canarischen Inseln im Winter 1887-1888 ausgeführte Reise. S.B. preuss. Akad. Wiss. for 1888: 1141-73.
—— 1888b. Die pelagische Thierwelt in grösseren Meerestiefen und ihre Beziehungen zu der Oberflächenfauna. Bibl. Zool. Stuttgart. 1: 12-7, 1 pl.
—— 1891. Die Canarischen Siphonophoren in monographischen Darstellungen. I. Stephanophyes superba und die Familie der Stephanophyiden. Abh. senckenb. naturf. Ges. 16: 553-627, 7 pls.
—— 1891-97. Coelenterata in Bronn's Thierreich. 2 (2), 1-326.
—— 1892. Die Canarischen Siphonophoren in monographischen Darstellungen. II. Die Monophyiden. Abh. senckenb. naturf. Ges. 18: 57-144, 4 pls.
—— 1897a. Ueber den Bau und die morphologische Auffassung der Siphonophoren. Verh. dtsch. zool. Ges. 7: 48-111, 29 figs.
—— 1897b. Die Siphonophoren der Plankton-Expedition. Ergebn. Plankton Exp. 2.K.b.: 1-126, 8 pls.
—— 1898. Das Knospungsgesetz der Schwimmglocken von Physophora. Zool. Anz. 21: 321-27, 2 figs.
—— 1913. Ueber den Wechsel der Glocken bei Siphonophoren. Ber. sächs. Ges. (Akad.) Wiss. 65: 27-41, 8 figs.
CLAUS, C. 1863. Neue Beobachtungen über Struktur und Entwickelung der Siphonophoren. Zeit. wiss. Zool. 12: 536-63, 2 pls.
—— 1873. Ueber die Abstammung der Diplophysen und über eine neue Gruppe von Diphyiden. Nachr. Ges. Wiss. Göttingen. for 1873: 257-61.
—— 1874. Die Gattung Monophyes und ihr Abkömmling Diplophysa. Schriften zoologische Inhalts. Wien. 1: 33, 4 pls.
—— 1878. Ueber Halistemma tergestinum n.sp., nebst Bemerkungen über den feinern Bau der Physophoriden. Arb. zool. Inst. Univ. Wien. 1: 1-56, 5 pls.
—— 1879. Agalmopsis utricularia, eine neue siphonophore des Mittelmeeres. Arb. zool. Inst. Univ. Wien. 2: 190-201, 1 pl.
—— 1883. Ueber das Verhältnis von Monophyes zu den Diphyiden sowie über den phylogenetischen Entwicklungsgang der Siphonophoren. Arb. zool. Inst. Univ. Wien. 5: 15-28 (14 pp.).
COSTA, O. G. 1836. Fauna del Regno di Napoli: Medusari.
CUNNINGHAM, J. T. 1892. On a species of siphonophore observed at Plymouth. J. mar. biol. Assoc. U.K. (N.S.). 2: (3), 212-5, 2 figs.
CUVIER, G. 1817. Le Regne Animal . . . 4 vols. illust., Paris.

DANA, J. W. 1858. On a new species of medusa related to Stephanomia: Crystallomia polygonata. Mem. Amer. Acad. Arts Sci. (N.S.). 6: 459-60, 1 pl.
DANIEL, A. & DANIEL, R. 1963. On a new species of Lensia from the Bay of Bengal. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (13) 5: 1962, 621-3.
DELAGE, Y. & HEROUARD, E. 1901. Traité de Zoologie Concrète. Les Coelentérés. 2: (2), 10 + 848, 72 pls., Paris.
DELLE CHIAJE, S. See Chiaje, S. delle.
DELSMAN, H. C. 1911. Ueber die Gonophoren von Hydractinia echinata. Zool. Anz. Leipzig. 37: 211-5.

ESCHSCHOLTZ, F. 1825. Bericht über die zoologische Ausbeute während der Reise von Kronstadt bis St. Peter und Paul. Oken's Isis. 16: 733-47, 1 pl.
—— 1829. System der Acalephen. 1-190, 16 pls. Berlin.
EYSENHARDT, K. W. 1821. Ueber die Seeblasen. Nova Acta Leop. Carol. 10: 375-422, 1 pl.

FEWKES, J. W. 1879. Note on the structure of Rhizophysa filiformis. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 20: 292-303, 1 pl.
—— 1880a. Contributions to a knowledge of the tubular jelly-fishes. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 6: 127-46, 3 pls.
—— 1880b. The tubes in the larger nectocalyx of Abyla pentagona. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 20: 318-24, 1 pl.

[NOTE: REFERENCES continues. Printed folio 223 = PDF page 228, offset printed = PDF - 5. 36 reference entries on this page. Author surnames printed in small capitals, transcribed here in full capitals. Em-rule repeat-author marks "——" preserved verbatim, not expanded.]
[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page.]
[NOTE: a thin vertical scan artefact (hair or fibre) crosses the CLAUS 1878/1879/1883 block near the middle of the measure, overlapping the "si" of "siphonophore" in the 1879 entry and the "y" of "Monophyes" in the 1883 entry; both words are still legible.]
[NOTE: entries transcribed as printed although the citation data look defective: DANIEL & DANIEL 1963 carries both a 1963 date and "1962" in the volume/page field, "(13) 5: 1962, 621-3."; CLAUS 1879 prints "siphonophore" in lower case; CHIAJE 1830-31 gives dates "1830-31" and "1823-31" in the same entry.]

<<<PAGE pdf=229 file=page_229.txt>>>
[PAGE 224]

[RUNNING HEAD] 224	A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

FEWKES, J. W. 1881. Studies of the jellyfishes of Narragansett Bay. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 8: 141-82, 10 pls.
—— 1882. Notes on the Acalephs from the Tortugas, with a description of new genera and species. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 9: 251-89, 7 pls.
—— 1882b. On the Acalephs of the East coast of New England. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 9: 291-310, 1 pl.
—— 1883. The siphonophores. Amer. nat. 17: 833-45.
—— 1884. On a few medusae from the Bermudas. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 11: 1-79.
—— 1885. On the development of Agalma. Studies from the Newport Marine Laboratory. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 11: 232-75.
—— 1886. Report on the medusae collected by the U.S. Fish Comm. Steamer 'Albatross' in the region of the Gulf Stream in 1883, 1884. Rept. U.S. Comm. Fish. for 1884: 927-77, 10 pls.
—— 1887. System der Siphonophoren, auf phylogenetischer Grundlage entworfen. (A separate edition of the following paper published in December, 1887.)
—— 1888a. Studies from the Newport Marine Zoological Laboratory. On certain medusae from New England. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 13: 209-40, 6 pls.
—— 1888b. On a new physophore, Pleophysa, and its relationships to other siphonophores. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Lond. (6), 1: 317-22, 1 pl.
—— 1888c. On a new Athorybia. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Lond. (6), 3: 207-10, 1 pl.
—— 1889. On Angelopsis and its relationships to certain Siphonophora taken by the 'Challenger'. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Lond. (6), 4: pl. 7, figs. 1-3.
FORSKÅL, P. 1775. Descriptiones animalium . . . quae in itineri orientali observavit, post mortem editit Carsten Niebuhr. Hauniae, 20 + xxiv + 15, 1 map.
—— 1776. Icones rerum naturalium . . . post mortem auctoris editit Carsten Niebuhr. Hauniae, 15, 43 pls.

GARSTANG, W. 1946. The morphology and relations of the Siphonophora. Quart. J. Micr. Sci. 87: (2), 103-93.
GEGENBAUR, C. 1853a. Ueber einige niedrige Seethiere. Z. wiss. Zool. 5: 103-17.
—— 1853b. Beiträge zur näheren Kenntniss der Schwimmpolypen. (Siphonophoren.) Z. wiss. Zool. 5: 285-344, 3 pls.
—— 1854. Ueber Diphyes turgida n.sp., nebst Bemerkungen über Schwimmpolypen. Z. wiss. Zool. 5: 442-54, 1 pl.
—— 1859. Neue Beiträge zur näheren Kenntniss der Siphonophoren. Nova Acta Leop. Carol. 27: 331-424, 1 pl.
GOETTE, A. 1907. Vergleichende Entwicklungsgeschichte der Geschlechtsindividuen der Hydropolypen. Z. wiss. Zool. 87: 1-335, 18 pls.
GOTO, S. 1910. On two species of Hydractinia living in symbiosis with a hermit crab. J. exp. Zool. 9: 469-96.
GOUGH, L. H. 1905. On the distribution and migration of Muggiaea atlantica Cunningham. Pub. Circ. Cons. Explor. Mer. 29: 13 pp., 3 charts.
GRAEFFE, E. 1860. Beobachtungen über Radiaten und Wurmer. Denkschr. schweiz. naturf. Ges. 17: 1-59, 10 pls.
—— 1884. Uebersicht der Seethierfauna des Golfes von Trieste. III. Coelenteraten. Arb. Zool. Inst. Univ. Wien. 5: 1-30, (333)-(362).
GRAVIER, CH. 1899. Sur un siphonophore nouveau de la tribu des Prayidae Kölliker. Bull. Mus. hist. nat. Paris. 5: 87-93, 4 figs.

HADŽI, J. 1918. Shvaćanje sifonofora. Rad. Jugoslav. Akad. Znanosti Umjet, Zagreb. 219: 195-277, 14 figs. (In Serbo-Croat A German summary in Die Auffassung der Siphonophoren. Izvjes. Rasprav. mat-prirod. Razr. Zagreb. 9-10, 1918: 79-105.)
—— 1944. Turbelarijska Teorija Knidarijev. Dela. mat prirod. Akad. Ljubljan. 3: 1-329.
HAECKEL, E. 1869. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Siphonophoren. Natuurk. Verh. Prov. Utrechtsch Genoots. i, 6: 1-120, 14 pls.
—— 1879. Das System der Medusen. Atlas. Denkschr. med-naturw. Ges. Jena. 1.
—— 1887. System der Siphonophoren, auf phylogenetischer Grundlage entworfen (A separate edition of the following paper published in December, 1887).
—— 1888a. System der Siphonophoren. Jena Z. naturw. 22: 1-46.
—— 1888b. Report on the Siphonophorae. Rep. sci. res. H.M.S. Challenger, Zool. 28: 1-380, 50 pls.
HALIM, Y. 1959. Observations sur l'hydrologie de la baie et du canyon de Villefranche-sur-mer. Vie et Milieu. 9, (3): 1958.
HARTLAUB, C. 1907. Craspedote Medusen. 1 Teil. 1 Lief. Codonidae und Cladonemidae. Nordisches Plankton. Zool. 6. 12: 1-136.
HERTWIG, O. & R. 1882. Das Nervensystem und die Sinnesorgane der Medusen. 1-186, 10 pls., Leipzig.
HUXLEY, T. H. 1859. The Oceanic Hydrozoa . . . Voyage of H.M.S. 'Rattlesnake'. Ray Soc. Lond. 1-143, 12 pls.

[NOTE: REFERENCES continues. Printed folio 224 = PDF page 229, offset printed = PDF - 5. 36 reference entries on this page. Author surnames printed in small capitals, transcribed here in full capitals. Em-rule repeat-author marks "——" preserved verbatim, not expanded. The running head carries the folio on the left of the head line, as this is a verso.]
[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page.]
[NOTE: this page carries the duplicated title the printer set under two different authors. FEWKES "—— 1887. System der Siphonophoren, auf phylogenetischer Grundlage entworfen. (A separate edition of the following paper published in December, 1887.)" and HAECKEL "—— 1887. System der Siphonophoren, auf phylogenetischer Grundlage entworfen (A separate edition of the following paper published in December, 1887)." are the same work; the punctuation of the parenthesis differs slightly between the two settings (Fewkes: period before "(A" and period inside the closing parenthesis; Haeckel: no period before "(A" and period outside). Both are transcribed as printed and not corrected.]
[NOTE: further apparent printer's errors preserved as printed: FEWKES "—— 1882." carries no "a" suffix although a "1882b." follows; the HADŽI 1918 parenthesis reads "(In Serbo-Croat A German summary in ..." with no punctuation after "Serbo-Croat"; GRAEFFE 1860 prints "Wurmer" without umlaut; HALIM 1959 gives "9, (3): 1958" with a year where a page range would be expected.]

<<<PAGE pdf=230 file=page_230.txt>>>
[PAGE 225]

[RUNNING HEAD] REFERENCES	225

HYMAN, L. H. 1940. The Invertebrates: Protozoa through Ctenophora. 1st ed. 1-726, 221 figs. New York & London. McGraw-Hill Book Co. Inc.
HYNDMAN, G. C. 1841. Note on the occurrence of the genus Diphya on the coast of Ireland. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Lond. 7: 164-6.
IWANTZOFF, N. 1896. Ueber den Bau die Wirkungsweise und die Entwicklung der Nesselknopfen der Coelenteraten. Bull. Soc. Nat. Moscou. 1896: 323-54, 2 pls.
JACOBS, W. 1937. Beobachtungen über das Schweben der Siphonophoren. Z. vergl. Physiol. 24 (4): 583-601.
JOHANNSEN, A. & LEVINSEN, C. 1903. De Danske farvandes plankton 1898-1901. Part 2. Kgl. Danske Vidensk. Schrifter. (6) 12: 265-326.
KAWAMURA, T. 1910. 'Bozunira' and 'Katsuwo no Eboshi.' Rhizophysa and Physalia. Zool. Mag. Tokyo. 22: 445-54, 1 pl., 5 figs.
—— 1911a. Genus Agalma and Crystallomia. Zool. Mag. Tokyo. 23: pt. 1, No. 267, 1-10, 1 pl.
—— 1911b. 'Shidarezakura Kurage' and 'Nagayoraku Kurage'. Cupulita picta Metschnikoff and Agalmopsis elegans Sars. Zool. Mag. Tokyo. 23: 359-63, 1 pl.
—— 1915. Calycophorae III. Zool. Mag. Tokyo. 27: 317-24, 1 pl.
—— 1943. (On two species of Bathyphysa.) Zool. Mag. Tokyo. 55: 80. (In Japanese.)
—— 1954. A report on Japanese siphonophores with special reference to new and rare species. J. Shiga Prefect. Junior College, ser. A.2. 99-129, 7 pls.
KEFFERSTEIN, W. & EHLERS, E. 1860. Auszug aus den Beobachtungen über die Siphonophoren von Neapel und Messina angestellt in Winter 1859-60. Nachr. Ges. Wiss. Göttingen. No. 23, 254-262.
—— 1861. Beobachtungen über die Siphonophoren von Neapel und Messina. Zoologische Beiträge gesammelt im Winter, 1859-1860 in Neapel und Messina. 1-34, 5 pls., Leipzig: Wilhelm Engelmann.
KÖLLIKER, A. 1853. Die Schwimmpolypen oder Siphonophoren von Messina. 1-96, 12 pls., Leipzig: Wilhelm Engelmann.
KOROTNEFF, A. 1884. Zur Histologie der Siphonophoren. Mittheil Zool. Stat. Neapel. 5: 229, 6 pls.
KÖRSCHELDT, E. & HEIDER, K. 1890. Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Entwicklungsgeschichte der wirbellosen Thiere . . . 1: 1-xxi + 1-308.
KRAMP, P. L. 1942. The 'Godthaab' Expedition 1928. Siphonophora. Medd. Gronland. 80: 3-24, 5 figs.
KÜHN, A. 1910. Die Entwicklung der Geschlechts individuen der Hydromedusen. Studien auf Ontogenese und Phylogense der Hydroiden. Zool. Jahrb. Jena. Abt. f. Anat. 30: 43-174.
—— 1913. Entwicklungsgeschichte und Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen der Hydrozoen. Ergenbn. Zool. 4 (1-2).

LAMARCK, J. B. P. A. DE M. DE. 1816. Histoire naturelle des animaux sans vertèbres. 2: 568., Paris.
—— 1818. Hist. nat. des animaux sans vertèbres. 5: 1-612, Paris.
—— 1835-45. Hist. nat. des animaux sans vertèbres. 2nd. ed.
LAMEERE, A. 1929. Precis de Zoologie. Les Metazoaires (caractères fondamentaux), les Spongiaires, les Coelentérés. Rec. Inst. zool. Torley-Rousseau. Bruxelles. 2: 1928 Suppl., 233-384.
LELOUP, E. 1933. Siphonophores calycophorides provenant des campagnes du Prince Albert 1er de Monaco. Res. Camp. sci. Monaco. 87: 1-67, 1 pl.
—— 1934. Siphonophores calycophorides de l'Ocean Atlantique tropical et austral. Bull. Mus. Hist. nat. Belg. 10 (6): 1-87, 15 figs.
—— 1935. Les siphonophores de la Rade de Villefranche-sur-mer (Alpes Maritimes, France). Bull. Mus. Hist. nat. Belg. 11: 31, 12 pls.
—— 1936. Siphonophores calycophorides (suite) et physophorides provenant des campagnes du Prince Albert 1er de Monaco. Res. Camp. sci. Monaco. 93: 3-36, 2 pls.
—— 1941. A propos des siphonophores du genre Anthophysa Brandt, 1835. Bull. Mus. Hist. nat. Belg. 17: No. 47, 1-7, 2 figs.
—— 1954. A propos des siphonophores. Volume jubilaire Victor van Straelen. 2: 643, Bruxelles.
LENS, A. D. & RIEMSDIJK, T. VAN. 1908. The siphonophora of the 'Siboga' Expedition. Siboga Exped. 9: 1-130, 24 pls. 52 figs.
LESSON, R. P. 1826. Voyage autour du monde . . . sur la Corvette de sa Majesté. 'La Coquille', pendant les années 1822, 1823, 1824 et 1825 . . . Atlas, Zoophytes. 16 pls.
—— 1843. Acalephes, Histoire naturelle des zoophytes. 1-596, 12 pls. Librairie Encyclopedique de Roret, Paris.
LESUEUR, C. A. ?1811. Voyage de découvertes aux terres australes. Hist. nat. . . . Partie Iconographique et gravure par M.C.A. Lesueur. 1-5, 1 pl., Paris. (Banksian Libr. B.M. Catal. 455 e 21.)
LESUEUR, C. A. & PETIT, N. 1807-11. Voyage de découvertes aux terres australes. Atlas. 40 pls., Paris.
LEUCKART, R. 1847. Zur Morphologie und Anatomie der Geschlechtsorgane. Göttingen Studien. 155-282.

[NOTE: REFERENCES continues. Printed folio 225 = PDF page 230, offset printed = PDF - 5. 35 reference entries on this page. Author surnames printed in small capitals, transcribed here in full capitals. Em-rule repeat-author marks "——" preserved verbatim, not expanded.]
[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page. The author's own editorial query on this page is printed BARE, not bracketed: "LESUEUR, C. A. ?1811." carries a bare question mark before the year, the same bare convention used on pp. 202-226. It is the author's mark, not a transcriber's uncertainty flag.]
[NOTE: in "KÖLLIKER, A. 1853." the comma after the surname is only faintly inked and could equally be read as a period; every other entry on the page uses a comma, and a comma is transcribed here.]
[NOTE: a thin vertical scan artefact (hair or fibre) crosses the KAWAMURA 1910 entry through the year "1910", which remains legible.]
[NOTE: apparent printer's errors preserved as printed: "Ueber den Bau die Wirkungsweise" (IWANTZOFF 1896, no comma); "Mittheil Zool. Stat. Neapel." without a period after "Mittheil" (KOROTNEFF 1884); "Geschlechts individuen" and "Phylogense" (KÜHN 1910); "Ergenbn. Zool." (KÜHN 1913); "2: 568., Paris." with doubled punctuation (LAMARCK 1816); "24 pls. 52 figs." with no comma (LENS & RIEMSDIJK 1908).]

<<<PAGE pdf=231 file=page_231.txt>>>
[PAGE 226]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

LEUCKART, R. 1851. Ueber den Bau der Physalien und der Rohrquallen im Allgemein. Zeit. wiss. Zool. 3: 189-212, pl. 6, figs. 1-6.
—— 1853. Zoologische Untersuchungen. I. Die Siphonophoren. 1-95, 3 pls.
—— 1854. Zur näheren Kenntniss der Siphonophoren von Nizza. Arch. Naturgesch. Jahrg. 22: 249-377, 3 pls.
LINNÉ, C. 1758. Systema naturae. ed. 10, 1, 823.
LOCHMANN, L. 1914. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Siphonophoren. Zeit. wiss. Zool. 108: 258-89, 1 pl.

MACKIE, G. O. 1964. Analysis of locomotion in a siphonophore colony. Proc. R. Soc. B 159: 366-391, 9 text-figs.
MACKINTOSH, N. A. 1934. Distribution of the macroplankton in the Atlantic sector of the Antarctic. Discovery Reports. 9: 65-160, 48 figs.
MAYER, A. G. 1894. Account of some medusae obtained in the Bahamas. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 25: 235-241, 3 pls.
—— 1900. Some medusae from the Tortugas, Florida. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 37: 13-82, 44 pls.
METSCHNIKOFF, E. 1870. Contributions to the knowledge of siphonophores and medusae (in Russian). Mem. Soc. Amis Sci. nat. Moscou. 8: 295-370, 6 pls.
—— 1874. Studien über die Entwicklung der Medusen und Siphonophoren. Zeit. Wiss. Zool. 24: 15-83, 10 pls.
MILNE EDWARDS, H. 1841. Observations sur la structure et les fonctions de quelques Zoophytes, Mollusques et Crustacés des côtes de la France. Ann. sci. nat. (2) 16: 193-232, 10 pls.
MOSER, F. 1917. Die Siphonophoren der Adria und ihre Beziehungen zu denen des Weltmeeres. S.B. Akad. Wiss. Wien. Math.-nat. Klasse. Abt. 1, 126: 9, 703-63, 3 pls., 1 fig.
—— 1924a. Die larvalen Verhältnisse der Siphonophoren in neuer Beleuchtung. Zoologica. Stuttgart. 28: 1, (73), 1-52, 5 pls., 35 figs.
—— 1924b. Siphonophoren. In: Kükenthal, W. and Krumbach, T. Handbuch der Zoologie. 1 3 Lieff: 485-521, 49 t.-figs.
—— 1925. Die Siphonophoren der Deutschen Südpol Expedition, 1901-03. Dtsch. Südpol. Exped. 16: Zool. 9: 1-541, 36 pls., 61 figs.
MÜLLER, P. E. 1870-1. Jagttagser overelnogle Siphonophorer. Naturh. Tidsskrift. 7: 261-332, 3 pls.
MÜNTER, H. 1912. Morphologie und Histologie von Hippopodius hippopus Forskål nebst entwicklungsgeschichtlichen Bemerkungen. Dissertation, 89 pp., 5 pls., 7 figs. Erfurt, Ohlenrothsche Buchdruckerei (G. Richter), 1912.
MURBACH, L. & SHEARER, C. 1903. On medusae from the coast of British Columbia and Alaska. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 2: 164-92, 5 pls.

OTTO, A. W. 1823. Beschreibung einiger neuen Mollusken und Zoophyten. Nova Acta Leop. Carol. 11: 273-314, 5 pls.

PANTIN, C. F. A. 1963. Speciation in the sea: Summarising remarks. Systematics Assoc. Publ. No. 5: 197-9.
PÉRON, F. & LESUEUR, C. A. 1807-16. Voyage de découvertes aux terres Australes, executé . . . pendant 1800-04, et redigé par M. F. Péron. 2 tom. (et Atlas), Paris.
PYEFINCH, K. A. & DOWNING, F. S. 1949. Notes on the general biology of Tubularia larynx Ellis & Solander. J. Mar. Biol. Soc. U.K. 28: 21-43, 6 figs.

QUOY, J. R. C. & GAIMARD, J. P. 1824. Voyage . . . sur l'Uranie et la 'Physicienne' . . . Zool. pt. 2 & Atlas., Paris.
—— 1827. Observations zoologiques faites à bord de 'l'Astrolabe', en Mai 1826, dans le detroit de Gibraltar. Ann. Sci. Mag. 10: 5-21, 172-93, 6 pls.
—— (1833) 1834. Voyage de découvertes de 'l'Astrolabe' . . . de M. J. Dumont D'Urville. Zool. IV. 1-390. Atlas. Zoophytes, pls. 1-26, Paris.

RICHTER, W. 1907. Die Entwicklung der Gonophoren einiger Siphonophoren. Z. wiss. Zool. 86: 557-618, 3 pls., 13 figs.
RISSO, A. 1826. Histoire naturelle des principales productions de l'Europe Meridionale. 5: 403, 10 pls., Paris.
ROSE, M. & CACHON, J. 1951. Diplomorpha paradoxa nov. gen, nov. sp., protiste parasite de l'ectoderme des siphonophores. C.R. Acad. Sci. Paris. 233: 451-2.
RÖMER, F. 1901. Die Siphonophoren: in Fauna Arctica. 2: 171-84.
RUSSELL, F. S. 1934. On the occurrence of the siphonophores Muggiaea atlantica Cunningham and Muggiaea kochi (Will) in the English Channel. J. Mar. Biol. Assoc. U.K. 19: 555-8.
RUSSELL, F. S. 1938. On the development of Muggiaea atlantica Cunningham. J. Mar. biol. Assoc. U.K. 22: 441-6, 6 figs.

SARS, M. 1846. Fauna littoralis Norvegiae. 1: 1-94, 10 pls. Christiania.
—— 1857. Bidrag til kundskaben om Middelhavets littoral fauna reisebemœrkninger fra Italien. Nyt. Magazin for Natürvideneskaberne Christiania. 10: 9.

[NOTE: REFERENCES continues from the previous page. Printed folio 226 = PDF page 231, offset printed = PDF - 5. 34 reference entries on this page. Author surnames printed in small capitals, transcribed here in full capitals. Em-rule repeat-author marks "——" preserved verbatim, not expanded; the printed rules vary slightly in length between entries and are all normalised here to a two-em-dash "——", as on the preceding pages.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: RUSSELL, F. S. 1938 repeats the surname in full instead of using the em-rule, although it directly follows RUSSELL, F. S. 1934. Printed that way; not normalised.]

[NOTE: in the MOSER 1925 entry the printed volume number "16:" is struck through in ink by hand, and a handwritten figure is inked in the space just below it, reading "[?17]" (a small opening mark followed by a 7; it could be a "1" or a stray dot). The printed "16:" is transcribed above; the manuscript correction is recorded here only.]
[HANDWRITTEN] [?17]

[NOTE: in "MAYER, A. G. 1894. Account of some medusae" a short heavy vertical ink/scan artefact falls between "medus" and "ae"; the word is "medusae".]

[NOTE: apparent printer's or author's errors preserved as printed: "im Allgemein." (LEUCKART 1851, no "-en"); "Zeit. Wiss. Zool." with capital W in METSCHNIKOFF 1874 where the same journal is "Zeit. wiss. Zool." elsewhere on the page; "126: 9, 703-63" (MOSER 1917); "1 3 Lieff:" (MOSER 1924b); "Jagttagser overelnogle" (MÜLLER 1870-1); "Mar. Biol. Soc. U.K." for the J. mar. biol. Ass. (PYEFINCH & DOWNING 1949); "nov. gen," with a comma for a period (ROSE & CACHON 1951); "Ann. Sci. Mag." (QUOY & GAIMARD 1827); "Natürvideneskaberne" (SARS 1857); "Atlas., Paris." with doubled punctuation (QUOY & GAIMARD 1824). RÖMER is alphabetised after ROSE, as printed.]

[NOTE: single-quote marks around 'l'Astrolabe' and 'Physicienne' are printed as right single quotes on both sides in the QUOY & GAIMARD entries, e.g. "de 'l'Astrolabe'"; transcribed here with ordinary apostrophes.]

[NOTE: a few faint isolated specks and one small hook-shaped mark in the right margin opposite the PÉRON & LESUEUR entry are scan artefacts, not type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=232 file=page_232.txt>>>
[PAGE 227]

[RUNNING HEAD] REFERENCES

—— 1877. Fauna littoralis Norwegiae. 3: 72 pp., 6 pls.
SCHNEIDER, K. C. 1896. Mittheilungen über Siphonophoren. Zool. Jb. Abt. anat. 9: 571-664, 3 pls., 32 figs.
—— 1898. Mittheilungen über Siphonophoren. III. Systematische und andere Bemerkungen. Zool. Anz. 21: 51-7, 73-95, 114-33, 153-73, 185-200.
—— 1899. Mittheilungen über Siphonophoren. IV. Nesselknopfe. Arb. Zool. Inst. Wien. 11 (2): 52, 4 pls.
SEARS, M. 1950. Notes on siphonophores. I. Siphonophores from the Marshall Islands. J. Mar. Res. 9 (1): 1-16, 2 figs.
—— 1952. Notes on siphonophores. 3. Nectopyramis spinosa n.sp. Breviora 3: 1-4, 3 figs.
—— 1953. Notes on siphonophores. 2. A revision of the Abylinae. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. 109 (1): 1-119, 29 figs.
SOUTWARD, A. J. 1962. The distribution of some plankton animals in the English Channel and approaches. II. Surveys with the Gulf III high-speed sampler, 1958-60. J. Mar. Biol. Assoc. U.K. 42: 163-77.
STECHOW, E. 1921. Neue Genera und Species von Hydrozoen und andere Evertebraten. Arch. Naturgesch. A. 87 (3): 248-65.
STIASNY, G. 1911a. Beobachtungen über die marine Fauna des Triester Golfes während des Jahres 1910. Zool. Anz. 37: 517.
—— 1911b. (in Neppi, V. & Stiasny, G.) Die Hydromedusen des Golfes von Trieste. Zool. Anz. 38: 395-9.
—— 1912. Beobachtungen über die marine Fauna des Triester Golfes während des Jahres 1911. Zool. Anz. 39: 604.
STUDER, T. 1878. Ueber Siphonophoren des tiefen Wassers. Z. wiss. Zool. 31: 1-24, 3 pls.
STUWITZ, P. 1836. Bemerkninger over trende nye Södyr. Mag. Naturvid. 12: 250-8.
ST. VINCENT, J. B. G. M. BORY, DE, 1904. Voyage dans les quatres principales isles des Mers d'Afrique. 1: 58 pls.

TOTTON, A. K. 1932. Siphonophora. Sci. Rep. Gr. Barrier Reef Exped. 4: 317-74, 36 figs.
—— 1936. Plankton of the Bermuda Oceanographic Expeditions. VII. Siphonophora taken during the year 1931. Zoologica, N.Y. 21 (4): 231-40.
—— 1941. New species of the siphonophoran genus Lensia. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Lond. (II), 8: 145-68, 29 figs.
—— 1954. Siphonophora of the Indian Ocean together with systematic and biological notes on related species from other oceans. Disc. Rep. 27: 1-161, 12 pls., 83 figs.
—— 1956. Development and metamorphosis of Agalma elegans (Sars) (Siphonophora, Physonectae). Pap. Mar. Biol. Oceanogr., Deep-sea Research, 3, Suppl. 239.
—— 1960. Studies on Physalia physalis (L.). Part I. Natural History and Morphology. Disc. Rep. 30: 301-408, 22 pls., 29 figs.
—— 1965. A new species of Lensia (Siphonophora Diphyidae) from the coastal waters of Vancouver, B.C. Ann. Mag. nat. Hist. (13) 7 (in press).
TOTTON, A. K. & FRASER, J. H. 1955. Siphonophora. Sub-order Physonectae. Families various. Fich. Ident. Zoopl. Sheet 62: 1-4, 27 figs.
TRÉGOUBOFF, G. & ROSE, M. 1957. Manuel de planktonologie mediterranéene. 2 vols. Centre Nat. Res. Sci. Paris.

VANHOEFFEN, E. 1906. Siphonophoren, Nordisches Plankton. 5, 11: 10-39.
VOGT, C. 1851. Zoologische Briefe, etc. 1: 138-41, 4 figs., Frankfurt.
—— 1852. Ueber die Siphonophoren. Z. wiss. Zool. 3: 522-5, 1 pl.
—— 1854. Recherches sur les animaux inférieures de la Mediterranée. Mém. Inst. Nat. Génev. 1: 1-164, 21 pls.
WEILL, R. 1934. Contribution à l'étude des Cnidaires et leurs nématocystes. I. Recherches sur les nématocystes (morphologie, physiologie, developpement). Trav. Stat. Zool. Wimereux. 10 & 11: 701 pp., 432 figs.
WEISMANN, A. 1883. Die Entstehung der Sexualzellen bei der Hydromedusen. Zugleich ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis des Baues und der Lebenserscheinungen dieser Gruppe. iii-xiii, 1-295, 24 pls., 21 figs.
WERNER, B. 1954. On the development and reproduction of the anthomedusan, Margelopsis haeckeli Hartlaub. Trans. N.Y. Acad. Sci. (2) 16: 143-6.
—— 1955. Ueber die Fortpflanzung der Anthomeduse, Margelopsis haeckeli Hartlaub. Subitan- und Dauereeier und die Abhängigkeit ihrer Bildung von äusseren Faktoren. Ver. Dtsch. zool. Ges. Tübingen. 1954: 124-33.
WILL, J. G. F. 1844. HoræTergestinae . . . der im Herbste 1843 bei Trieste beobachteten Akalephen. 1-86, 2 pls., Leipzig.
WILLEM, V. 1894. La structure des palpons de Apolemia uvaria Esch., et les phénomènes de l'absorption dans les organs. Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg. (3) 27: 1894, 354 pp.

[NOTE: end of REFERENCES. The list ends with WILLEM, V. 1894 and the remaining lower third of the page is blank. Printed folio 227 = PDF page 232, offset printed = PDF - 5. 34 reference entries on this page, the first of which ("—— 1877. Fauna littoralis Norwegiae.") belongs to SARS, M., carried over from the foot of printed p226. Author surnames printed in small capitals, transcribed here in full capitals. Em-rule repeat-author marks "——" preserved verbatim, not expanded.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: in the TOTTON 1936 entry the word "Plankton" is set half italic, half roman — "Plank" in italic, "ton" in roman — evidently a compositor's error in switching fount. Transcribed as the single word "Plankton".]

[NOTE: in the WILL 1844 entry the title reads "Horæ Tergestinae", but the "æ" ligature is heavily over-inked into a solid blot that touches the following capital T with no visible word space; transcribed above as printed, "HoræTergestinae". The reading of the blotted glyph as "æ" is confident from its outline but it is the one doubtful character on this page.]

[NOTE: apparent printer's or author's errors preserved as printed: "Zool. Jb. Abt. anat." (SCHNEIDER 1896); "Nesselknopfe" for Nesselknöpfe (SCHNEIDER 1899); "Notes on siphonophores. I." then "3." then "2." — Roman then arabic numbering, and out of numerical order (SEARS 1950, 1952, 1953); "Neue Genera und Species von Hydrozoen und andere Evertebraten" (STECHOW 1921); "les quatres principales isles" (ST. VINCENT 1904); "(II), 8:" with a Roman series number where other entries use arabic (TOTTON 1941); "mediterranéene" (TRÉGOUBOFF & ROSE 1957); "Centre Nat. Res. Sci." for Centre Nat. Rech. Sci. (TRÉGOUBOFF & ROSE 1957); "les animaux inférieures" (VOGT 1854); "Cnidaires et leurs nématocystes" (WEILL 1934); "bei der Hydromedusen" (WEISMANN 1883); "Kenntnis" here against "Kenntniss" elsewhere in the list; "Dauereeier" (WERNER 1955); "dans les organs" for organes (WILLEM 1894); "(3) 27: 1894, 354 pp." repeating the year in the volume position (WILLEM 1894).]

[NOTE: ST. VINCENT is alphabetised under "ST." between STUWITZ and TOTTON, and the entry has a comma rather than a period before the year: "ST. VINCENT, J. B. G. M. BORY, DE, 1904." Printed that way.]

[NOTE: the duplicate title the reference list contains straddles this page and the two preceding ones — "Voyage de découvertes aux terres australes" appears on printed p225 under LESUEUR, C. A. ?1811 and again under LESUEUR, C. A. & PETIT, N. 1807-11, and on printed p226 under PÉRON, F. & LESUEUR, C. A. 1807-16. Each is transcribed on its own page exactly as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=233 file=page_233.txt>>>
[PAGE 229]

INDEX OF GENERA AND SPECIES

Abyla, 208
	bicarinata, 211
	carina, 210
	haeckeli, 210
	ingeborgae, 211
	peruana, 215
	schmidti, 212
	tottoni, 214
	trigona, 208
Abylopsis, 216
	eschscholtzi, 218
	tetragona, 216
Agalma, 52
	clausi, 53
	elegans, 54
	haeckeli, 53
	okeni, 53
Amphicaryon, 111
	acaule, 112
	ernesti, 113
	peltifera, 112
Angelopsis, 95
	dilata, 95
	globosa, 95
Apolemia, 45
	uvaria, 45
Archangelopsis, 96
	typica, 96
Athorybia, 86
	rosacea, 87

Bargmannia, 82
	elongata, 82
Bassia, 219
	bassensis, 219
Bathyphysa, 42
	conifera, 43
	japonica, 44
	sibogae, 43

Ceratocymba, 204
	dentata, 207
	intermedia, 206
	leuckarti, 205
	sagittata, 206
Chelophyes, 185
	appendiculata, 185
	contorta, 187
Chuniphyes, 194
	moserae, 196
	multidentata, 194
Clausophyes, 192
	galeata, 194
	ovata, 193

Cordagalma, 61
	cordiformis, 61
Crystallophyes, 197
	amygdalina, 197
Cystonectae: spp. inquirendae, 43

Desmophyes, 127
	annectens, 128
Dimophyes, 184
	arctica, 184
Diphyes, 152
	antarctica, 157
	bojani, 155
	chamissonis, 156
	dispar, 153
Dromalia, 96
	alexandri, 96

Enneagonum, 220
	hyalinum, 221
Epibulia, 44
	chamissonis, 44
	ritteriana, 44
Erena, 73
	richardi, 74
Eudoxia macra, 191
Eudoxoides, 188
	mitra, 188
	spiralis, 189

Forskalia, 97
	cuneata, 109
	edwardsi, 100
	formosa, 108
	leuckarti, 102
	misakinensis, 109
	tholoides, 108

Halistemma, 56
	amphytridis, 60
	cupulifera, 58
	rubrum, 56
	striata, 59
Heteropyramis, 199
	maculata, 199
Hippopodius, 139
	hippopus, 139

Lensia, 158
	achilles, 171
	ajax, 179

229

[NOTE: FOLIO OFFSET DISCONTINUITY. This page prints the folio 229 (centred at the foot, below the type), whereas the preceding PDF page 232 printed 227. The offset therefore changes here from printed = PDF - 5 (which held for PDF pages 6-232) to printed = PDF - 4, because printed p228 — the blank verso following the end of the REFERENCES — is absent from the scan. This is the first page of the index and the first page at the new offset.]

[NOTE: the folio 229 sits centred at the foot of the page, not at the head; there is no running head and no printer's signature mark on this page.]

[NOTE: this is a two-column page. The full left column (Abyla . . . Clausophyes ovata) is transcribed first, then the full right column (Cordagalma . . . Lensia ajax), in accordance with the protocol; they are not interleaved. The two columns are alphabetically continuous: the right column resumes at Cordagalma where the left column left off at Clausophyes.]

[NOTE: all genus and species names in the index are printed in italic; the sub-entries (species epithets) are indented one em under their genus and are transcribed here with a single leading tab. Page-reference numbers are in roman. The one exception to the all-italic setting is "Cystonectae: spp. inquirendae, 43", where "Cystonectae" is roman and only "spp. inquirendae" is italic; printed that way.]

[NOTE: alphabetical groups are separated by blank lines in the printed index (a break before B, before C, before D, before E, before F, before H and before L); the blank lines are preserved above. There is no bold letter heading of any kind — the blank line is the only division.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: a heavy black vertical ink stroke, apparently a pen mark by a reader, crosses the line "eschscholtzi, 218" immediately after the final "i" and before the comma. The printed word is "eschscholtzi" (so spelled in the source, not "eschscholtzii"); the stroke obscures no letter.]

[NOTE: a small dark hair-like scan artefact lies against the initial "E" of "Erena, 73" and just below it; the word is legible.]

[NOTE: printed as here, with the genus-gender mismatches of the source not corrected: "Amphicaryon . . . peltifera", "Angelopsis . . . dilata", "Halistemma . . . rubrum" / "cupulifera" / "striata", "Forskalia . . . cuneata". "Abyla carina" (not carinata) and "Abyla bicarinata" are separate entries as printed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=234 file=page_234.txt>>>
[PAGE 230]

[RUNNING HEAD] 230	INDEX

Lensia—cont.
	campanella, 165
	challengeri, 166
	conoidea, 162
	cossack, 166
	exeter, 176
	fowleri, 174
	grimaldi, 178
	hardy, 173
	havock, 175
	hostile, 177
	hotspur, 167
	hunter, 164
	leloupi, 161
	lelouveteau, 172
	meteori, 170
	multicristata, 164
	reticulata, 172
	subtilis, 168
	subtilis var. chuni, 170
	subtiloides, 159
	tottoni, 168

Lilyopsis, 126
	gracilis, 127
	rosea, 126
Lychnagalma, 73
	utricularia, 73
	vesicularia, 73

Maresearsia, 113
	praeclara, 113
Marrus, 62
	antarcticus, 62
	orthocanna, 65
	orthocannoides, 63
Melophysa, 89
	melo, 89
Moseria, 66
	convoluta, 66
Muggiaea, 180
	atlantica, 181
	bargmannae, 183
	delsmani, 183
	kochi, 180

Nanomia, 68
	bijuga, 68
	cara, 72
Nectopyramis, 130
	diomedeae, 131

	natans, 135
	spinosa, 137
	thetis, 135

Physalia physalis, 39
Physophora, 83
	hydrostatica, 83
Praya, 121
	dubia, 122
	reticulata, 123
Prayoides, 124
	intermedia, 125
Pyrostephos, 76
	vanhoeffeni, 76

Rhizophysa, 40
	filiformis, 41
	eysenhardti, 42
Rhodalia, 9[?2]
	miranda, 92
Rosacea, 115
	cymbiformis, 118
	plicata, 116

Sphaeronectes, 201
	gracilis, 202
	irregularis, 203
Stephalia, 92
	corona, 92
Stephanophyes, 129
	superba, 129
Sulculeolaria, 143
	angusta, 149
	bigelowi, 152
	biloba, 145
	chuni, 150
	monoica, 152
	quadrivalvis, 143
	turgida, 149

Thalassophyes, 200
	crystallina, 201

Vogtia, 140
	glabra, 142
	pentacantha, 142
	serrata, 142
	spinosa, 140

[NOTE: printed folio 230 = PDF page 234, offset printed = PDF - 4, the new offset established on the preceding page (PDF 233 = printed 229). Unlike printed p229, this page carries its folio at the head, in the outer (left) position, with the running head "INDEX" centred beside it; the two are on one line and are given together in the [RUNNING HEAD] field above, separated by a tab. No folio appears at the foot.]

[NOTE: this is a two-column page. The full left column (Lensia—cont. . . . Nectopyramis diomedeae) is transcribed first, then the full right column (natans . . . Vogtia spinosa), in accordance with the protocol; they are not interleaved. The first three lines of the right column — "natans, 135", "spinosa, 137", "thetis, 135" — are further species of Nectopyramis, carried over from the foot of the left column; they are indented as sub-entries and are printed with no repeated genus catchline.]

[NOTE: "Lensia—cont." at the head of the left column continues the Lensia entry from printed p229. "Lensia" is italic and "—cont." is roman, joined by an em rule with no spaces; printed as here.]

[NOTE: all genus and species names are printed in italic, page-reference numbers in roman; sub-entries are indented one em and are given here with a single leading tab. The one part-roman line is "subtilis var. chuni, 170", where "var." is roman between two italic words.]

[NOTE: alphabetical groups are separated by blank lines (breaks before Lilyopsis, before Maresearsia, before Nanomia, before Physalia, before Rhizophysa, before Sphaeronectes, before Thalassophyes and before Vogtia); the blank lines are preserved above. There are no letter headings.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: UNCERTAIN READING. In "Rhodalia, 9[?2]" the second digit of the page number is completely covered by a heavy black handwritten ink mark, roughly the shape of a "Z" with a trailing stroke, made by a reader over and to the right of the digit. Only the "9" is legible. "2" is offered as the likely reading because the sub-entry immediately below reads "miranda, 92" and Stephalia below it is also 92, but the digit itself cannot be read; a second opinion on this one character would be welcome. The [?2] is the transcriber's uncertainty flag, not a printed bracket.]

[NOTE: printed as here, with the source's own inconsistencies: "Rhizophysa . . . eysenhardti" is placed after "filiformis" and so out of alphabetical order; "Marrus . . . orthocanna, 65" precedes "orthocannoides, 63"; "Maresearsia" (so spelled); "Muggiaea . . . kochi" (single i); "Lensia hardy", "havock", "hostile", "hotspur", "hunter", "cossack", "exeter" — Totton's ship-and-nickname epithets, printed lower-case in italic like the rest.]

<<<PAGE pdf=235 file=page_235.txt>>>
[PAGE 235: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE I

FIG. 1.	Physalia physalis (L.). A medium sized, right-handed living specimen in a tank at Miami Marine Laboratory. By courtesy of Dr. Charles E. Lane.
FIG. 2.	Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål). From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate 21, figure 151.
FIG. 3.	Rhizophysa eysenhardti Gegenbaur. From Kawamura, 1910, plate 14, figure 1.
FIG. 3a.	Tentillum of the same, × 15. From Kawamura, 1910, plate 14, figure 3.

[NOTE: THE PLATES BEGIN HERE. This is the caption leaf for PLATE I; the facing leaf (PDF page 236) is the plate itself. The plate section is unfoliated — this page carries no printed folio anywhere, so the printed-folio sequence stops at 230 (PDF 234) and the "printed = PDF - 4" offset no longer applies from here on. The leaf is also of a different trim from the text leaves (the rendered image is 2576 × 3240 px against 2554 × 3529 px for PDF 234), i.e. the plates are on a shorter, wider stock.]

[NOTE: the caption sits in the middle of an otherwise empty page — roughly the vertical centre — with about 40% of the leaf blank above the "PLATE I" heading and the lower 45% blank below the last caption line. Transcribed in the order and position printed. There is no signature mark and no folio at the foot.]

[NOTE: the running head "A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA" is printed in small capitals, centred, at the very head of the leaf, and is transcribed here in full capitals. "PLATE I" is in spaced full capitals of the text size. "FIG." in each caption line is printed in small capitals (F full-size, "IG." small) and is transcribed in full capitals; the tabs above stand for the printed space between the figure number and the caption text.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: "× 15" in the FIG. 3a line is a printed multiplication sign, not the letter x.]

[NOTE: numerous faint isolated grey specks are scattered over the blank areas of the leaf; they are scan noise, not printing.]

<<<PAGE pdf=236 file=page_236.txt>>>
[PAGE 236: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE I

1
3
2
3a
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE I, a single rectangular halftone block. The caption belongs to the facing leaf, PDF page 235, where it is printed in full; nothing of the caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: the plate number "PLATE I" is engraved in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the halftone block, outside the image area. Every other printed character on the leaf is a figure number set into the plate itself: "1" upper left, "3" upper right, "2" at the left about two-fifths down, "3a" at the centre-right about half-way down. They are listed above in that reading order. No other lettering, no scale bar text, no engraver's or printer's credit line appears.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

[NOTE: two short white horizontal streaks cross the halftone at about a quarter of the way down, left and right of centre; they are defects in the plate or the scan, not lettering.]

<<<PAGE pdf=237 file=page_237.txt>>>
[PAGE 237: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE II	Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål)

Photographs of living specimens from Villefranche, 1963

FIG. 1.	Parts of two specimens, natural size.
FIG. 2.	Pneumatophore, × [?oo].
FIG. 3.	Gonodendron in the middle stage of development, × [?oo].
FIG. 4.	Part of tentacle, × [?oo].

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE II; the facing leaf (PDF page 238) is the plate itself. Unfoliated, as all the plate section is — no printed folio, no signature mark. The plate heading and species name are on one printed line, "PLATE II" in spaced full capitals and "Rhizophysa filiformis" in italic with "(Forskål)" in roman; the tab above stands for the printed space between them.]

[NOTE: the caption block sits about two-fifths of the way down an otherwise empty leaf; the whole lower half is blank. Transcribed where it physically sits.]

[NOTE: UNCERTAIN READING, three occurrences. The magnification in FIGS. 2, 3 and 4 is printed as the multiplication sign followed by two identical small circular glyphs and a full point: "× oo." In this fount the old-style zero is an x-height circle all but indistinguishable from a lower-case "o", so the token reads either "oo" or "00"; I cannot decide it from the image. "00" is the more likely intent — an unfilled magnification placeholder that was never set — but the glyphs are transcribed above as "[?oo]" rather than resolved. All three are the same token. These square brackets are the transcriber's, not the author's.]

[NOTE: apart from the three [?oo] flags, no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: "FIG." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital "IG." and is transcribed in full capitals. "×" is a printed multiplication sign, not the letter x.]

[NOTE: the leaf is heavily speckled with faint grey scan noise across all its blank areas; none of it is printing.]

<<<PAGE pdf=238 file=page_238.txt>>>
[PAGE 238: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE II

1
2
3
4
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE II, four halftone blocks in a 2 × 2 arrangement filling the middle of the leaf. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 237, and no part of the caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: the plate number "PLATE II" is engraved in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the block group, outside the images. The only other printed characters are the four figure numbers, each reversed out in white in a corner of its own block: "1" in the top left corner of the upper left block, "2" in the top right corner of the upper right block, "3" in the top left corner of the lower left block, "4" in the top right corner of the lower right block. They are listed above in that reading order. No lettering appears within the images, no scale bars, no credit line.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

<<<PAGE pdf=239 file=page_239.txt>>>
[PAGE 239: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE III	Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål)

Photographs of living specimens from Villefranche, 1963

FIG. [?1].	Part of the upper region of the stem to show young stages of budding gonodendra.
FIG. 2.	Part of the upper region of the stem to show two early growth stages of gonodendra.
FIG. 3.	The same, a little later.
FIG. 4.	Part of a farther developed gonodendron.

G.b = gonophore bud; Go = gonodendron; Gz = gastrozooid; N = nectophore; P = palpon; St = stem; T = tentacle.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE III; the facing leaf (PDF page 240) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The plate heading and species name are on one printed line, "PLATE III" in spaced full capitals, "Rhizophysa filiformis" in italic and "(Forskål)" in roman; the tab above stands for the printed space between them.]

[NOTE: UNCERTAIN READING, one occurrence. The figure number on the first caption line is very badly under-inked: only a small broken fragment of the numeral printed, and on the image it could be the flag of a "1" or the head of a "7". It is transcribed "[?1]" because the four caption lines run 1, 2, 3, 4 and this is the first of them, but the glyph itself is not legible. These square brackets are the transcriber's, not the author's. This is the one character on the leaf that would benefit from a second opinion.]

[NOTE: the closing line is the key to the plate's lettering — a run of abbreviation equivalences separated by semicolons, set as a single paragraph across two printed lines and joined here into one line. Each abbreviation is in italic and each is followed by a printed "=" sign: G.b, Go, Gz, N, P, St, T. The "z" of "Gz" is the italic swash z of this fount, with a descending tail; transcribed as an ordinary z.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf beyond the transcriber's [?1] above, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: the caption block sits about two-fifths of the way down an otherwise empty leaf; the whole lower half is blank. "FIG." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital "IG." and is transcribed in full capitals. Faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas throughout.]

[NOTE: in the running head the second H of "SIPHONOPHORA" is thickened and partly filled with ink, so the word can look like "SIPIIONOPHORA"; it reads SIPHONOPHORA.]

<<<PAGE pdf=240 file=page_240.txt>>>
[PAGE 240: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE III

1
St
T
Gz
Go
T
Gz

3
St

2
Gz
Go
Gz
St
Go

4
P
P
G.b
P
N
G.b
N
G.b
G.b
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE III, four halftone blocks in a 2 × 2 arrangement. Its caption, including the key to these abbreviations, is on the facing leaf, PDF page 239; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: the plate number "PLATE III" is engraved in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the block group, outside the images. All other printed characters are lettering set into the blocks, reversed out in white or printed in black with a fine leader rule to the structure indicated. They are listed above block by block, and within each block top to bottom, with a blank line between blocks. The block numbers are NOT in the usual reading order: "1" is in the upper left block, "3" in the upper right, "2" in the lower left and "4" in the lower right, so the numbering runs down the left column and then down the right.]

[NOTE: block 1 (upper left) carries, after its number: "St", "T", "Gz", "Go", then lower down a second "T" and a second "Gz". Block 3 (upper right) carries only its number and one "St" at the right, about two-thirds down. Block 2 (lower left) carries "Gz" upper right, "Go" at centre left, a second "Gz" lower right, "St" lower left and a second "Go" at the foot. Block 4 (lower right) carries "P" upper right, a second "P" at the left, "G.b", a third "P", "N", a second "G.b", a second "N", a third "G.b" and a fourth "G.b" descending the right side. Counts on this plate: seven tokens in block 1 including the number, two in block 3, six in block 2, ten in block 4.]

[NOTE: a broken vertical black rule runs down the right-hand margin of the leaf outside the images, in five or six short disconnected segments at the levels of the block edges; it is a register or trim mark, not lettering.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. The full point in "G.b" is printed; it is part of the abbreviation, as the key on PDF page 239 confirms.]

<<<PAGE pdf=241 file=page_241.txt>>>
[PAGE 241: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE IV	Rhizophysa filiformis (Forskål)

Photographs of living specimens from Villefranche, 1963

FIG. 1.	Two pieces of one tentacle. Below (left), some 4 cm from the proximal end showing early buds of tentilla into which some of the nematocysts have entered from the ectoderm. The longitudinal muscle band can be seen on the lower side. Above (right), a piece of tentacle some 2 cm nearer the proximal end. Only one tentillum has been entered by a single nematocyst.
FIG. 2.	A tricornuate tentillum showing the web between the branches.
FIG. 3.	View of a tentacle focused on two dendritic tentilla, partly expanded.
FIG. 4.	A bird-headed or beaked tentillum.
FIG. 5.	Partly expanded tricornuate and dendritic tentilla.
FIG. 6.	Three fully expanded dendritic tentilla showing opaque areas.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE IV; the facing leaf (PDF page 242) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The plate heading and species name are on one printed line, "PLATE IV" in spaced full capitals, "Rhizophysa filiformis" in italic and "(Forskål)" in roman; the tab above stands for the printed space between them.]

[NOTE: the caption block sits a little below the middle of an otherwise empty leaf; the lower two-fifths is blank. The FIG. 1 caption runs to four printed lines, full measure, with its turn-over lines set flush left rather than indented; the wrapped lines are joined into continuous prose above, as the protocol directs. The remaining five captions are one line each.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here. The printed parentheses in "(left)", "(right)" and "(Forskål)" are round brackets, not square.]

[NOTE: "FIG." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital "IG." and is transcribed in full capitals. "4 cm" and "2 cm" are printed with a space and no full point after "cm".]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout; the isolated comma-like mark in the left margin about two-thirds down is scan noise, not type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=242 file=page_242.txt>>>
[PAGE 242: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE IV

1
2
3
4
5
6
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE IV, six halftone blocks in three rows: two blocks in the top row (1 left, 2 right), two in the middle row (3 left, 4 right), two in the bottom row (5 left, 6 right). Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 241; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: the plate number "PLATE IV" is engraved in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the block group, outside the images. The only other printed characters are the six figure numbers, each reversed out in white inside its own block: "1" at the top right of block 1, "2" at the top right of block 2, "3" at the top right of block 3, "4" at the bottom right of block 4, "5" at the top left of block 5, "6" at the top left of block 6. They are listed above in numerical order, which is also the reading order. There is no other lettering, no abbreviation key, no scale bar text and no credit line.]

[NOTE: the blocks are of unequal size and are not flush; block 4 is the smallest and sits slightly lower than block 3, and its top left corner is cut away by a small notch where it abuts block 3.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

<<<PAGE pdf=243 file=page_243.txt>>>
[PAGE 243: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE V

FIG. 1.	Rhizophysa eysenhardti Gegenbaur. From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate 20, figure 147.
FIG. 2.	Bathyphysa sibogae L. & van R. loc. cit. above, plate 20, figure 148.
FIG. 3.	Bathyphysa conifera (Studer). loc. cit. above, plate 20, figure 149.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE V; the facing leaf (PDF page 244) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. Unlike PLATES II-IV, the heading here is "PLATE V" alone, centred on its own line, with no species name beside it and no "Photographs of living specimens" sub-line.]

[NOTE: the caption block sits a little above the middle of an otherwise empty leaf, with the whole lower half blank. The FIG. 1 caption runs to two printed lines, its turn-over line indented to align under the caption text rather than under "FIG."; the wrapped lines are joined into continuous prose above.]

[NOTE: "loc. cit." is printed in italic in FIGS. 2 and 3, and "above" following it in roman. "L. & van R." in FIG. 2 is the author's abbreviation of Lens & van Riemsdijk, printed in roman; the "L." is followed by a full point that is lightly inked but present.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here. The printed parentheses in "(Studer)" are round brackets, not square.]

[NOTE: "FIG." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital "IG." and is transcribed in full capitals. Faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=244 file=page_244.txt>>>
[PAGE 244: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE V

1
2
3
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE V, a single large rectangular block with a solid black ground on which the three figures are reproduced as white line work. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 243; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: the plate number "PLATE V" is engraved in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the block, outside the image area. The only other printed characters are the three figure numbers, reversed out in white within the black ground: "1" at the centre left, "2" at the upper right, "3" at the right about two-thirds down. They are listed above in that reading order. No other lettering, no scale bar text and no credit line appears.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

<<<PAGE pdf=245 file=page_245.txt>>>
[PAGE 245: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE VI	Bathyphysa conifera (Studer)

FIG. 1.	From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate 19, figure 146.
FIGS. 2, 3.	From Studer, 1878, plate 1, figures 1, 2.
FIG. 4.	Specimen (Brit. Mus. Reg. No. 1949.2.2.4) taken by the cable ship 'Monarch' on a grappling iron wire at 6° 19' N, 27° 23' W in 600 fathoms.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE VI; the facing leaf (PDF page 246) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The plate heading and species name are on one printed line, "PLATE VI" in spaced full capitals, "Bathyphysa conifera" in italic and "(Studer)" in roman; the tab above stands for the printed space between them. There is no "Photographs of living specimens" sub-line on this leaf.]

[NOTE: the caption block sits a little below the middle of an otherwise empty leaf, with the whole lower half blank. The second caption line is headed "FIGS." (plural) for the two figures it covers; the third runs to two printed lines whose turn-over is set flush left, and is joined into continuous prose above.]

[NOTE: the registration number is printed "1949.2.2.4" with full points and no spaces. The coordinates are printed with a degree sign and a prime: "6° 19' N, 27° 23' W"; the primes are typographic right single quotes in the fount and are transcribed here as apostrophes. "600 fathoms" is printed with an old-style zero pair. The ship name is enclosed in printed single quotation marks, 'Monarch', with an opening left quote and a closing right quote.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here. The printed parentheses in "(Studer)" and "(Brit. Mus. Reg. No. 1949.2.2.4)" are round brackets, not square.]

[NOTE: "FIG."/"FIGS." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital following letters and is transcribed in full capitals. Faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout; in the running head a speck sits over the N of "SIPHONOPHORA".]

<<<PAGE pdf=246 file=page_246.txt>>>
[PAGE 246: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE VI

1
2
3
4
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE VI, arranged as one wide block across the upper half of the leaf and two blocks side by side across the lower half. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 245; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: the plate number "PLATE VI" is engraved in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the block group, outside the image area. The only other printed characters are the four figure numbers, reversed out in white: "1" at the left of the upper block about a quarter of the way down, "2" at the left of the lower left block, "3" at the centre of the lower left block level with the "2", "4" at the left of the lower right block. They are listed above in numerical order, which is also the reading order. There is no other lettering, no scale bar text and no credit line.]

[NOTE: figures 2 and 3 share a single block, so the lower half of the leaf is two blocks carrying three figure numbers between them.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

<<<PAGE pdf=247 file=page_247.txt>>>
[PAGE 247: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE VII	Rhizophysa eysenhardti Gegenbaur

From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate 21, figure 150

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE VII; the facing leaf (PDF page 248) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The plate carries a single unnumbered figure, so there are no FIG. lines at all: the whole caption is the heading line plus one source line.]

[NOTE: the plate heading and species name are on one printed line, "PLATE VII" in spaced full capitals, "Rhizophysa eysenhardti" in italic and "Gegenbaur" in roman with no parentheses; the tab above stands for the printed space between them. Neither line ends in a full point.]

[NOTE: the caption block sits just below the middle of the leaf; everything above it and the whole lower half are blank. Transcribed where it physically sits.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=248 file=page_248.txt>>>
[PAGE 248: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE VII
[no other lettering]
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf carries PLATE VII, a single tall black-ground block set left of centre and occupying about three-quarters of the leaf's height. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 247; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: "PLATE VII", engraved in bold full capitals to the right of and above the top of the block, is the ONLY printed text anywhere on this leaf. The plate carries a single unnumbered figure and so bears no figure number, no lettering, no scale bar text and no credit line — consistent with the caption on PDF page 247, which has no FIG. lines.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

<<<PAGE pdf=249 file=page_249.txt>>>
[PAGE 249: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE VIII	Apolemia uvaria Lesueur

An engraving by Lesueur of a specimen taken in 1809 at Nice by Péron & Lesueur. It forms part of a rare work published by Lesueur about 1811, evidently an extract of a projected paper based on a manuscript left to him by Péron, entitled 'Histoire complète des Méduses'. Part of this engraving was copied and published by Blainville in 1834.

FIG. 1.	Part of the whole animal.
FIGS. 2-4.	Nectophores, showing tentacles.
FIG. 5.	Apex of the stem, enlarged, showing the pneumatophore and young replacement nectophores.   a.c = pneumatophore; d = bract.
FIG. 6.	Transverse section of the stem.
FIG. 7.	Longitudinal section of the stem.
FIG. 8.	Cormidial group.
FIG. 9.	Part of the stem, enlarged.   a = palpon.
FIG. 10.	a, a.	Bracts.
FIG. 11.	Gastrozooid, with a palpacle and b gastrozooid.
FIG. 12.	Gastrozooid in transverse section.
FIG. 13.	Stem opened to show musculature.
FIG. 14.	Gonophores.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE VIII; the facing leaf (PDF page 250) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The plate heading and species name are on one printed line, "PLATE VIII" in spaced full capitals, "Apolemia uvaria" in italic and "Lesueur" in roman with no parentheses; the tab above stands for the printed space between them.]

[NOTE: the heading is followed by a four-line headnote of continuous prose, set full measure and justified, before the numbered captions begin; its wrapped lines are joined above. The caption block sits between about a third and two-thirds of the way down the leaf; the top third and the bottom third are blank.]

[NOTE: the "FIGS. 2-4" line covers three figures and its printed rule between the numbers is an en dash. The FIG. 5 caption runs to two printed lines, its turn-over indented to align under the caption text; joined above.]

[NOTE: lettering keys appear inside the captions themselves rather than in a separate key paragraph, and use italic letters with a printed "=" sign: "a.c = pneumatophore; d = bract." in FIG. 5, "a = palpon." in FIG. 9, "a, a." in FIG. 10, and italic "a" and "b" naming parts in FIG. 11. The runs of three spaces above stand for the wider printed spaces that set these keys off from the preceding sentence.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here. The single quotation marks around 'Histoire complète des Méduses' are printed, an opening left quote and a closing right quote, and are transcribed here as apostrophes.]

[NOTE: "FIG."/"FIGS." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital following letters and is transcribed in full capitals. Faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=250 file=page_250.txt>>>
[PAGE 250: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE VIII

F. 1.
2
3
4
10
a
a
a
a
F.5
a
e
d
F.6
F.7
F.8
F.9
F.11
a
a
b
b
F.12
F.13
F.14.
Le Sueur Del[?t]. & Sculp.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE VIII, a single reproduction of Lesueur's engraving filling almost the whole leaf. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 249; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: "PLATE VIII" is set in bold full capitals above the top right corner of the block, outside the image area, in the same modern fount as the other plate numbers in this volume.]

[NOTE: TWO DISTINCT KINDS OF LETTERING are present on this plate, and the difference matters. (a) The original engraved labels, in a small 19th-century roman with a full point after the F: "F. 1." at the top right, "F.5" at the centre right, "F.6" at the centre, "F.7", "F.8" and "F.9" across the middle, "F.11" at the left, "F.12" and "F.13" at the lower left, and "F.14." at the lower right. (b) Four figure numbers in a much larger and heavier modern face, evidently added for this reproduction and not engraved by Lesueur: "2", "3", "4" and "10". There is no "F.2", "F.3", "F.4" or "F.10" in the engraved series, and no label of either kind for figures numbered 1 and 5 through 14 beyond those listed. The tokens are listed above in reading order, top-left to bottom-right, with the engraved and modern labels interleaved as they physically fall.]

[NOTE: besides the figure labels the plate carries small engraved italic reference letters within the figures. Around the group labelled 10 there are four separate italic "a"s (one beside the upper crescent-shaped object, one at the left of the row below, one below the central object, one at the right of the row). At F.5 there are an italic "a" above right, an italic "e" below left and an italic "d" further below left. At F.11 there are two italic "a"s down the left side and two italic "b"s down the centre-right. All eleven are listed above in the [PLATE] block in their reading positions.]

[NOTE: the engraver's signature is engraved in fine cursive script along the foot of the plate, left of centre, below all the figures. UNCERTAIN READING: it reads "Le Sueur Del[?t]. & Sculp." — the abbreviation between "Del" and the point carries a dot above a short ascender and is equally readable as "Delt." (delineavit) or "Deli."; the letter itself cannot be resolved at this resolution. "Le Sueur" is written as two words in the script, unlike the "Lesueur" of the printed caption on PDF page 249. The square brackets in "Del[?t]." are the transcriber's, not part of the engraving. This is the one token on the leaf that would benefit from a second opinion.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no signature mark of the printer on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets appear on this leaf.]

[NOTE: the top left corner of the reproduction shows the edges of two lighter rectangular patches behind figures 2, 3, 4 and 10 — the join lines of separate pieces of the original engraving mounted together for photography. They carry no lettering.]

<<<PAGE pdf=251 file=page_251.txt>>>
[PAGE 251: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE IX
Agalma okeni Eschscholz.

From Kawamura, 1910-11, plate 16

Figures 1-8.	Mature form

FIG. 1.	Whole animal, lateral view, natural size.
FIG. 2.	Nectophore viewed obliquely from above, × 3.
FIG. 3.	Young nectophore from above, × 3.
FIG. 4.	Bract, lateral view, × 3.
FIG. 5.	Bract, viewed from distal end, × 3.
FIG. 6.	Young bract, diagonal lateral view, × 3.
FIG. 7.	Cormidium, without bracts, right view, × 8.
FIG. 8.	Terminal cnidoband of a tentillum, × 15.

Figures 9-14.	Young form (as Crystallomia polygonata Dana)

FIG. 9.	Whole animal, lateral view, natural size.
FIG. 10.	Nectophore, diagonal view from above, × 3.
FIG. 11.	Young nectophore from above, × 4.
FIG. 12.	Bract, from ridged side, × 3.
FIG. 13.	Cormidium, without bracts, right view, × 3.
FIG. 14.	Terminal cnidoband of a tentillum.

b = bract; bc = bracteal canal; bg = gastrozooid (basigaster); cn = cnidoband; fg = female gonophore; lh = lateral horn; p = inflated pouch of left and right radial canals; mg = male gonophore; ns = nectosac; n = nectosome; p = pneumatophore; pl = palpons; plb = bracteal lamellae; ple = palpacle; sh = gastrozooid (digestive part); so = gastrozooid (apical part); sp = gastrozooid stalk; t = tentacle; ta = terminal ampulla; th = involucre; tp = peduncle; v = velum.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE IX; the facing leaf (PDF page 252) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. Unlike PLATES II-VIII, the heading is set on TWO centred lines here, "PLATE IX" in spaced full capitals on the first and "Agalma okeni Eschscholz." on the second, with "Agalma okeni" in italic and "Eschscholz." in roman and a closing full point.]

[NOTE: the caption block occupies roughly the middle third of the leaf; the top quarter and the bottom third are blank. It is divided into two numbered runs, each introduced by its own centred sub-heading: "Figures 1-8.   Mature form" and "Figures 9-14.   Young form (as Crystallomia polygonata Dana)". Both sub-headings print "Figures" in full, in roman upper and lower case, not as "FIGS."; the individual caption lines below them print "FIG." with a full-size F and small-capital "IG.", transcribed in full capitals. The tabs above stand for the printed spaces.]

[NOTE: the closing paragraph is the key to the plate's lettering, set full measure across four printed lines and joined into one line above. Each abbreviation is italic and followed by a printed "=" sign. It contains 21 entries.]

[NOTE: PRINTER'S OR AUTHOR'S ERROR PRESERVED. The italic letter "p" is defined twice in the key, with two different meanings: "p = inflated pouch of left and right radial canals" and, four entries later, "p = pneumatophore". Both are printed as a plain italic p; neither carries a distinguishing mark, and the entries are in strict alphabetical position for a single letter p. Transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: the multiplication signs in the magnifications are printed multiplication signs, not the letter x. "1910-11" and the figure ranges "1-8" and "9-14" are printed with en dashes.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here. The parentheses in "(basigaster)", "(digestive part)", "(apical part)" and "(as Crystallomia polygonata Dana)" are round brackets, not square.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=252 file=page_252.txt>>>
[PAGE 252: unnumbered]

[NOTE: page printed landscape on a portrait leaf, rotated 90° anticlockwise, with no /Rotate flag in the PDF. To read the plate the leaf must be turned 90° clockwise. The plate is transcribed below as if correctly oriented. The words "PLATE IX" are the one exception: they are set in the leaf's own portrait orientation, so once the plate is turned upright they read bottom-to-top up the right-hand edge.]

[PLATE]
PLATE IX

1.
p
n
b
t

2.
v
ns

3.
lp
ns

9.
p
n
b
t

10.
v
ns

11.
ns

7.
pl
fg
mg
plb
sp
bg
sh
so
t
ple

12.
bc

8.
tp
cn
th
t
ta
lh

6.
bc

13.
sp
bg
sh
so
ple
pl
plb
t
fg
mg

14.
tp
cn
th
th
ta

4.
bc

5.
bc
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE IX, a single lithographed block carrying all fourteen figures. Its caption, with the key to the abbreviations, is on the facing leaf, PDF page 251; no caption text is repeated here.]

[NOTE: "PLATE IX" is set in bold full capitals in the top right corner of the leaf as the leaf lies portrait — that is, outside the plate block and in the text orientation, not the plate's. It is the only text on the leaf that is not part of the lithograph.]

[NOTE: the figures are NOT laid out in numerical order. Read in the corrected (landscape) orientation, the top band runs 1., 2., 3., 9., 10. left to right; below them 7. occupies the centre with 11. and 12. down the right; the lower band runs 8. at the far left, then 6., 13. and 14.; and 4. and 5. sit along the bottom between 6. and 13. The [PLATE] block above lists the tokens figure by figure, each figure's number first and then its own reference letters in their reading order within that figure, with a blank line between figures; the figures themselves are given in the order just described, not renumbered.]

[NOTE: every reference letter is engraved in small italic and joined to the structure it names by a fine dotted or ruled leader. Figures 1 and 9 each carry p, n, b and t; figures 2 and 10 each carry v and ns; figure 3 carries lp and ns; figure 11 carries ns alone; figures 4, 5, 6 and 12 each carry bc alone; figure 8 carries tp, cn, th, t, ta and lh; figure 14 carries tp, cn, th, a second th and ta; figures 7 and 13 carry the full set of cormidial letters as listed. Figure 14 is the only figure with a repeated letter.]

[NOTE: the letter "lp" on figure 3 does not appear in the key printed on the facing caption leaf (PDF page 251), which lists lh but no lp. Transcribed as printed; the reading of both letters is clear at magnification.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf.]

<<<PAGE pdf=253 file=page_253.txt>>>
[PAGE 253: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE X

Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)

From Kawamura, 1910-11, plate 7, figures 1-10

FIG. 1.	Whole animal, × 1⅓.
FIGS. 2-4.	Nectophores, × 7.
FIGS. 5, 6.	Bracts, × 7.
FIG. 7.	Internodal bract, × 15.
FIG. 8.	Young bract, × 15.
FIG. 9.	Tentillum, × 15.
FIG. 10.	Cormidia, × 2⅔.

Agalma elegans (Sars), (1846), figures 11-17

FIG. 11.	Whole animal, × ⅔.
FIGS. 12, 13.	Nectophores, × 6.
FIGS. 14, 15.	Bracts, × 4.
FIG. 16.	Cormidium, without bracts, × 4.
FIG. 17.	Tentillum, × 15.

amp = ampulla; br = bract; brc = bracteal canal; cc = circular canal; cnb = cnidoband; dc = dorsal canal; fg = female gonophore; inv = involucre; lc = lateral canal; lh = lateral horn; mg = male gonophore; nc = nectophore; ns = nectosac; p = palpon; pl = palpacle; pn = pneumatophore; rc = radial canal; s = gastrozooid; st = peduncle; st.br = peduncular lamellae; t = tentacle; t.f = terminal filament; vc = ventral canal.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE X; the facing leaf (PDF page 254) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. "PLATE X" stands alone on its own centred line, with the first species name on a separate centred line below it, "Nanomia bijuga" in italic and "(Chiaje)" in roman.]

[NOTE: the caption covers TWO species on one plate, each with its own centred heading and its own run of figures: "Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)" with "From Kawamura, 1910-11, plate 7, figures 1-10" and figures 1-10, then "Agalma elegans (Sars), (1846), figures 11-17" and figures 11-17. The second heading has no separate source line; its source is given as the parenthesised "(1846)" within the heading. The caption block occupies roughly the middle third of the leaf, with the top third and the bottom third blank.]

[NOTE: three magnifications are printed as vulgar fractions with the numerator over the denominator on one type body: "× 1⅓." in FIG. 1, "× 2⅔." in FIG. 10 and "× ⅔." in FIG. 11. They are transcribed above with the Unicode fraction characters ⅓ and ⅔; the printed forms are a one-piece fraction with a horizontal rule, and FIG. 1 sets the whole number 1 alongside it.]

[NOTE: the closing paragraph is the key to the plate's lettering, set full measure across five printed lines and joined into one line above. Each abbreviation is italic and followed by a printed "=" sign. It contains 23 entries, and unlike the key on PDF page 251 no letter is defined twice. Two entries carry an internal full point, "st.br" and "t.f"; both are printed.]

[NOTE: the abbreviations here do NOT match those of PLATE IX on the preceding caption leaf — this key uses br, brc, cnb, p, pl, pn, s, st, t.f where PLATE IX used b, bc, cn, pl, ple, p, sh/so, tp, ta. Printed as here; the two plates were keyed independently.]

[NOTE: "FIG."/"FIGS." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital following letters and is transcribed in full capitals. The multiplication signs are printed multiplication signs, not the letter x. "1910-11", "2-4", "1-10" and "11-17" are printed with en dashes.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind (neither the bare "?" convention of pp. 202-226 nor a bracketed one) appears here. The parentheses in "(Chiaje)", "(Sars)" and "(1846)" are round brackets, not square.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout; a small comma-shaped speck sits alone in the blank space above the "PLATE X" heading and is not type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=254 file=page_254.txt>>>
[PAGE 254: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE X

1.
pn
nc
s
t
t
s
s
s

2.
dc
rc
lc
cc

4.
lo
cc
vc

11.
pn
nc
t
t
t

13.
dc
[?ca]
lc
vc

3.

14.
brc

16.
t
s
fg
p
mg
pl
p
st br
st br
p
pl

15.
brc

12.
ns
rc
dc
cc

8.

7.
brc

17.
st
inv
amp
lh

9.
st
inv
cnb
t.f

10.
s
p
p
pl
br
s

5.

6.
brc
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE X, a single reproduced drawing-block carrying all seventeen figures. Its caption, with the key to the abbreviations, is on the facing leaf, PDF page 253; no caption text is repeated here. The plate is printed PORTRAIT on a portrait leaf — unlike PLATE IX on PDF page 252 it needs no rotation, and every figure number and reference letter reads upright.]

[NOTE: "PLATE X" is set in bold full capitals in the top right corner of the leaf, above and clear of the plate block, in the ordinary text orientation. It is the only text on the leaf that is not part of the reproduced drawing.]

[NOTE: the figures are NOT laid out in numerical order. Read left to right and top to bottom, the arrangement is: a top band of 1. (a tall figure occupying the whole left edge of the plate), 2., 4., 11. (a second tall figure running the full height of the plate at centre-right) and 13.; then 3., 14. and 16.; then 15. and 12.; then 8., 7. and 17.; then 9. and 10.; and finally 5. and 6. along the bottom left. The [PLATE] block above lists the tokens figure by figure, each figure's number first and then its own reference letters in their reading order within that figure, with a blank line between figures; the figures are given in the layout order just described, not renumbered. Figures 3., 5. and 8. carry a number but no reference letters, and are listed with their number alone.]

[NOTE: every reference letter is engraved in small italic and joined to the structure it names by a fine dotted or ruled leader. Token counts per figure: 1. eight (pn, nc, then s, t, t, s, s, s down the siphosome); 2. four; 3. none; 4. three; 5. none; 6. one; 7. one; 8. none; 9. four; 10. six; 11. five; 12. four; 13. four; 14. one; 15. one; 16. eleven; 17. four. Sixty-two reference letters in all across the seventeen figures.]

[NOTE: two reference letters on this plate do not appear in the key printed on the facing caption leaf (PDF page 253), which lists lc but no lo, and cc but no ca. (a) Figure 4 carries "lo": at magnification the second glyph is an unmistakably closed round bowl with no ascender, quite unlike the open italic c used in "cc" on the same figure, so "lo" is what is engraved. (b) Figure 13's lower-left letter is transcribed "[?ca]": the first glyph is a clear open italic c, but the second is a closed bowl with a short right-hand stroke, matching the "a" of "amp" on figure 17 rather than the open c of "cc" on figures 2, 4 and 12. The alternative reading is "cc"; the leader line meets the letter at exactly that point and may be closing an open c. 300 dpi is the limit of the scan here and the two readings cannot be separated with confidence. SECOND OPINION WANTED on this one token.]

[NOTE: the peduncular-lamellae letter is engraved on figure 16 as "st br", in two parts with a clear word space and NO full point, twice. The key on the facing caption leaf prints it "st.br" with an internal full point. Transcribed as engraved on the plate.]

[NOTE: the terminal-filament letter on figure 9 is engraved "t.f" with an internal full point, agreeing with the key.]

[NOTE: the figure number of figure 16 has a small comma- or apostrophe-shaped ink speck immediately to its upper left, so that it can read as "'16", and a second similar speck sits alone in the blank space below it. Neither is type; the printed numeral is "16". Comparable isolated specks occur in the blank areas across the whole leaf.]

[NOTE: a short hook-shaped ink mark and a broken row of very faint grey wisps lie in the white margin just below the lower edge of the plate block, centred at about two-thirds of the leaf's width. They are too faint and too fragmentary to be read as type and are more probably scanner artefact or offset from a facing leaf; nothing legible is present. No printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark appears on this leaf.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. The only square brackets above are transcriber markers.]

<<<PAGE pdf=255 file=page_255.txt>>>
[PAGE 255: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XI

Agalma elegans (Sars)

Figures 1, 2.	Post-larvae, preserved, from Villefranche

FIG. 1.	To show the nectostyle (centre left), upward growth of the nectosome and the larval-type tentilla of the protozooid.

FIG. 2.	To show the nectostyle, commencement of the upward growth of the nectosome and the larval-type tentilla of the protozooid.

Agalma okeni Esch.

From Chun, 1897, figure 18

FIG. 3.	Whole animal, × 1½ approx.

br = bract; f = palpacles; go = gonophores; nect = nectophores; p = gastrozooids; pa = palpons; pn = pneumatophore; t = tentacles; t.pr = tentacle of protozooid; tr = stem (of nectosome).

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE XI; the facing leaf (PDF page 256) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The caption block sits low on the leaf, occupying roughly the band from a third of the way down to a little past the middle; the whole upper third and the whole lower two-fifths are blank apart from scan speckle.]

[NOTE: the caption covers TWO species on one plate, each with its own centred heading: "Agalma elegans (Sars)" (in italic, with "(Sars)" in roman) with the sub-heading "Figures 1, 2.   Post-larvae, preserved, from Villefranche" and figures 1 and 2; then "Agalma okeni Esch." (italic species name, roman "Esch.") with its own source line "From Chun, 1897, figure 18" and figure 3. Unlike the second heading on PDF page 253, this one has a separate source line and no parenthesised date.]

[NOTE: "PLATE XI" stands alone on its own centred line in spaced full capitals. The sub-heading prints "Figures" in full, in roman upper and lower case, not as "FIGS."; the individual caption lines print "FIG." with a full-size F and small-capital "IG.", transcribed in full capitals. The tabs above stand for the printed spaces.]

[NOTE: the FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 entries are not tabular but full-measure prose, each running to two printed lines with the second line set flush left (hanging indent); they are joined into one line each above, with the hyphens of "larval-type" retained because they are printed hyphens within the word, not line-break hyphens. FIG. 2's second printed line does begin after a genuine end-of-line hyphen in "larval-/type", which has been closed up to "larval-type" — the hyphen is kept because "larval-type" is hyphenated in FIG. 1 within a single line.]

[NOTE: the magnification in FIG. 3 is printed as a one-piece vulgar fraction with the whole number alongside, "× 1½ approx."; it is transcribed with the Unicode fraction character ½. The multiplication sign is a printed multiplication sign, not the letter x.]

[NOTE: the closing paragraph is the key to the plate's lettering, set full measure across two printed lines and joined into one line above. Each abbreviation is italic and followed by a printed "=" sign, several of which are printed slightly high or broken in this scan. It contains 10 entries, and no letter is defined twice. One entry carries an internal full point, "t.pr"; it is printed. Note that "p" here means gastrozooids, whereas on PLATE X (PDF pages 253-254) "p" meant palpon and "s" the gastrozooid — this plate was keyed independently.]

[NOTE: the numerals in "Figures 1, 2", "1897", "figure 18", "FIG. 1", "FIG. 2", "FIG. 3" and "1½" are printed in old-style (text) figures throughout, so that 1 has no upper serif and 8 is small; transcribed as ordinary digits.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind appears here. The parentheses in "(Sars)", "(centre left)" and "(of nectosome)" are round brackets, not square. The only square brackets above are transcriber markers.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=256 file=page_256.txt>>>
[PAGE 256: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE XI

1.

3.
pn.
nect.
tr.
p.
br.
go.
pa.
f
p.
t
f.
t.pr.

2.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE XI. Its caption, with the key to the abbreviations, is on the facing leaf, PDF page 255; no caption text is repeated here. The plate is printed portrait on a portrait leaf and needs no rotation; every figure number and reference letter reads upright.]

[NOTE: "PLATE XI" is set in bold full capitals in the top right corner of the leaf, above and clear of the plate block, in the ordinary text orientation. It is the only text on the leaf that is not part of the plate.]

[NOTE: the plate is made up of three separate blocks. Figures 1 and 2 are half-tone photographic blocks, forming a narrow column down the left third of the plate: figure 1 a rectangular block at the top, figure 2 a rectangular block at the bottom, the two overlapping in a stepped notch about three-fifths of the way down. Figure 3 is a line block filling the right two-thirds of the plate for its whole height. Figures 1 and 2 carry NO lettering at all — only their numerals, printed solid black in a plain sans-serif face on the light grey of the photograph, near the block's upper left corner — and are listed above with their number alone. Figure 3's numeral is in the same black sans-serif face, standing in the white of the line block. All the reference letters on the plate belong to figure 3.]

[NOTE: the figure numbers are not in layout order down the leaf. Scanning top to bottom and left to right, "1" comes first (top left of the upper photograph), then "3" (top right, high in the line block), then "2" (upper left of the lower photograph, about three-fifths of the way down). The [PLATE] block above follows that reading order, so figure 3's letters are listed between figures 1 and 2.]

[NOTE: figure 3's reference letters are engraved in small italic and joined to the structures they name by long dotted leaders; they stand outside the drawing, in two vertical files down the left and right sides of it. They are listed above in top-to-bottom order regardless of side: pn. (left), nect. (right), tr. (right), p. (left), br. (right), go. (right), pa. (right), f (left), p. (right), t (left), f. (right), t.pr. (right). Twelve letters in all. Note that p. and f each occur twice.]

[NOTE: the reference letters on this plate are printed WITH a trailing full point — "pn.", "nect.", "tr.", "p.", "br.", "go.", "pa.", "f.", "t.pr." — unlike the letters on PLATES IX-X, which carry none. Two of the twelve are transcribed above without a point, the "f" at mid-left and the "t" at lower left, because at 300 dpi the first dot of the leader sits where a full point would be and the two cannot be separated; the "f." at mid-right, whose leader starts further away, plainly has one. It is likely that all twelve carry the point.]

[NOTE: "t.pr." carries an internal full point as well as a trailing one, agreeing with the key on the facing caption leaf, which prints "t.pr".]

[NOTE: the ten letters of the key on PDF page 255 are br, f, go, nect, p, pa, pn, t, t.pr, tr — all ten are used on the plate, and none is used that is not in the key.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark on this leaf. The half-tone blocks reproduce with visible grain and with several dark blotches in the background of figure 2 that are photographic, not type. Isolated grey specks occur in the white margins.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. The only square brackets above are transcriber markers.]

<<<PAGE pdf=257 file=page_257.txt>>>
[PAGE 257: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XII	Halistemma rubrum (Vogt)

From Vogt, 1854, plate 7

a = pneumatophore; b.c = nectophores; d = buds of cormidial groups; e = bracts; f = gastrozooids; g = female gonodendra; h = ripe ♂ gonophore; i = palpon; k = palpacle; l = cnidosac.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE XII; the facing leaf (PDF page 258) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The caption block is very short — three printed lines plus the running head — and sits just below the middle of the leaf; the whole upper two-fifths and the whole lower half are blank apart from scan speckle.]

[NOTE: the layout of the heading differs from every preceding plate caption in this section. "PLATE XII" and the species name are set on ONE centred line, "PLATE XII" in spaced full capitals followed by a wide space, then "Halistemma rubrum" in italic and "(Vogt)" in roman. There is no separate species line. The tab above stands for that printed space.]

[NOTE: there are NO numbered FIG. entries on this caption leaf at all — the caption consists of the heading, the source line "From Vogt, 1854, plate 7", and the key to the lettering. This is the first caption leaf in the plate section with no figure list.]

[NOTE: the key is set full measure across two printed lines and is joined into one line above. Each abbreviation is italic and followed by a printed "=" sign. It contains 10 entries, lettered a, b.c, d, e, f, g, h, i, k, l — a single alphabetical run with j omitted, unlike the mnemonic abbreviations used on PLATES IX-XI. No letter is defined twice. One entry carries an internal full point, "b.c"; it is printed. The letters are Vogt's own, taken over with his plate.]

[NOTE: the entry for h reads "h = ripe ♂ gonophore", with the printed astronomical/biological MALE symbol (circle with an arrow to the upper right) standing in for the word; it is type, set between "ripe" and "gonophore". Transcribed with the Unicode male sign ♂.]

[NOTE: "1854" and "7" in the source line are printed in old-style (text) figures; transcribed as ordinary digits.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind appears here. The parentheses in "(Vogt)" are round brackets, not square. The only square brackets above are transcriber markers.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=258 file=page_258.txt>>>
[PAGE 258: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE XII

[?d]
[?a]
[?b]
[illegible]
[?i]
[?c]
[?d]
[?k]
l
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE XII, a single un-numbered figure filling the whole plate block. Its caption and the key to the lettering are on the facing leaf, PDF page 257; no caption text is repeated here. The plate is printed portrait on a portrait leaf and needs no rotation.]

[NOTE: "PLATE XII" is set in bold full capitals in the top right corner of the leaf, above and clear of the plate block, in the ordinary text orientation. It is the only text on the leaf printed in ordinary black type, and the only text on the leaf that can be read with certainty.]

[NOTE: THERE ARE NO FIGURE NUMBERS ON THIS PLATE. Unlike PLATES IX-XI it carries one undivided illustration, agreeing with the caption leaf, which lists no FIG. entries. The only lettering within the plate block is the run of single reference letters given above.]

[NOTE ON LEGIBILITY — THE CENTRAL DIFFICULTY OF THIS PAGE. The plate is a half-tone reproduction of a lithograph printed white-line on a dark grey ground, and the reference letters are engraved in small italic in WHITE, reversed out of that ground, each with a broken white leader running to the structure it names. On the scan they are about ten pixels tall, at low contrast, sitting on a coarse half-tone screen of the same tonal value. The embedded scan is 2550 x 3222 at 300 ppi and that is the native resolution of the source file, so no further detail is recoverable by re-rendering; local contrast stretching and screen-smoothing were used to get the readings above and they are the limit of what the image supports. Every letter above except the last is therefore flagged. The bracketed readings are transcriber uncertainty markers, NOT printed brackets.]

[NOTE: nine letter positions were located, by sweeping the whole plate block in overlapping contrast-enhanced tiles. Given as fractions of the leaf's width and height, and in the top-to-bottom order used in the [PLATE] block above, they are: (0.84, 0.12) right margin, upper, read [?d] — a bowl at the lower left with an ascender rising to the right, the clearest of the eight uncertain letters; (0.14, 0.14) left margin, read [?a] — a round bowl with a small closed counter, which could equally be e or o; (0.14, 0.17) left margin, read [?b] — a tall ascender leaning left over a bowl at the lower right; (0.13, 0.20) left margin, [illegible] — a small round blob with a hint of a counter and nothing more; (0.50, 0.68) centre, read [?i] — a short stroke with a separate dot above it, fairly secure as i; (0.16, 0.70) left, read [?c] — an open C-form, open to the right, so c rather than e; (0.17, 0.72) left, read [?d] — bowl plus ascender, the same form as the first letter; (0.53, 0.72) centre, read [?k] — an ascender with an arm and a diagonal leg to the right, h being the alternative; (0.69, 0.93) lower centre-right, read l — a single italic stroke with a hooked head and a tail, the one letter on the plate legible without qualification.]

[NOTE: the key on the facing caption leaf lists ten abbreviations, a, b.c, d, e, f, g, h, i, k, l, which between them use eleven letters (b and c being defined together). Only nine marks were found on the plate, and no mark was found that could be read as e, f or g. Either those letters fall in parts of the plate where the reversed white type is lost in the bright white of the drawing, or they are absent. This absence is reported as a gap in the transcription, not as a fact about the printed plate. SECOND OPINION WANTED on this whole page: a reader with a better scan of PLATE XII should be able to recover all eleven letters and correct the eight flagged readings.]

[NOTE: no letter above is offered as a description of what the plate depicts, and none is inferred from the caption's key. Two of the nine readings — the first and the seventh — came out as the same letter d, which the key defines only once; both are recorded as read rather than reconciled.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark on this leaf. The plate block runs from about a ninth to about nine-tenths of the leaf's width and from about a ninth to about nineteen-twentieths of its height, leaving a white margin all round. Isolated grey specks occur in that white margin.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. Every square bracket above is a transcriber marker.]

<<<PAGE pdf=259 file=page_259.txt>>>
[PAGE 259: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XIII

Halistemma cupulifera L. & v. R.
From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate XVI, figures 116-118

FIG. 1.	Whole animal, × 11.
FIG. 2.	Tentillum, = 7.
FIG. 3.	Tip of tentillum, × 130.

?Moseria convoluta (Moser)

FIG. 4.	Part of the siphosome, × 7, 'Discovery' St. 2023, 47° 46' S, 00° 28.6' E, 1500-1000 m, to show young bracts.
FIGS. 5-8.	Nectophores, × 2.
FIGS. 9, 10.	Bracts.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE XIII; the facing leaf (PDF page 260) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The caption block sits a little below the middle of the leaf; the whole upper third and the whole lower two-fifths are blank apart from scan speckle.]

[NOTE: the caption covers TWO species on one plate. "PLATE XIII" stands alone on its own centred line in spaced full capitals; below it, on two centred lines, "Halistemma cupulifera L. & v. R." (species name italic, authority roman) and its source line "From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate XVI, figures 116-118", then figures 1-3. The second species heading, "?Moseria convoluta (Moser)", is centred with no source line of its own, and is followed by figures 4-10.]

[NOTE: PRINTED QUERY MARK, NOT A TRANSCRIBER MARKER. The second species heading begins with a bare printed question mark set close up against the italic generic name — "?Moseria convoluta (Moser)" — the author's own editorial query as to the identification. It is NOT enclosed in square brackets, unlike the "[? Prayidae]" form used elsewhere in this monograph, and it is not one of my markers. No printed square brackets occur anywhere on this leaf.]

[NOTE: PRINTER'S ERROR PRESERVED. FIG. 2 reads "Tentillum, = 7." with a printed EQUALS sign where every other magnification on the leaf has a multiplication sign. At magnification the mark is unmistakably two short parallel horizontal strokes, not a crossed ×. Transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: FIG. 4 runs to two printed lines, the second indented to align under "Part"; they are joined into one line above. No line-break hyphen is involved.]

[NOTE: "'Discovery'" is printed in single quotation marks — a turned comma opening and an apostrophe closing — for the ship's name; it is roman, not italic. The station data print a degree sign and a prime for minutes: "47° 46' S, 00° 28.6' E". The longitude is printed with two zeros, "00°". The depth range "1500-1000 m" is printed high-to-low in that order, with an en dash, and is transcribed as printed.]

[NOTE: "FIG."/"FIGS." in each caption line is printed with a full-size F and small-capital following letters and is transcribed in full capitals. The tabs above stand for the printed spaces. The multiplication signs are printed multiplication signs, not the letter x. "116-118", "5-8" and "1500-1000" are printed with en dashes; "9, 10" with a comma.]

[NOTE: all numerals on the leaf are printed in old-style (text) figures, so that 1 has no upper serif, 2 sits on the baseline with a descending tail in "2023", and 0 is small and round; transcribed as ordinary digits. The plate number and the source plate number are roman, "XIII" and "XVI".]

[NOTE: there is NO key to the lettering on this caption leaf. PLATES IX, X, XI and XII all closed their captions with a list of abbreviations; this is the first caption leaf in the plate section that has none, and the figure list is the last thing on the leaf.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout; a comma-shaped speck sits alone in the right-hand blank margin about five-sixths of the way down, and another small speck near the foot centre. Neither is type. The only square brackets above are transcriber markers.]

<<<PAGE pdf=260 file=page_260.txt>>>
[PAGE 260: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE XIII

1.
4.
3.
2.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE XIII. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 259; no caption text is repeated here. The plate is printed portrait on a portrait leaf and needs no rotation; every figure number reads upright.]

[NOTE: "PLATE XIII" is set in bold full capitals in the top right corner of the leaf, above and clear of the plate, in the ordinary text orientation. It is the only text on the leaf outside the blocks.]

[NOTE: THE FIGURE NUMBERS ARE THE ONLY TEXT ON THIS PLATE. There are no reference letters of any kind — not one lettering token, on any of the ten figures. The whole plate block was swept quadrant by quadrant at magnification to confirm this. The numerals are printed in a heavy sans-serif face WITHOUT a following full point; the full points shown in the [PLATE] block above are mine, added only to separate the entries, and should be read as "1", "4", "3", "2", "5" … "10".]

[NOTE: the plate is assembled from seven separate blocks laid out in a grid two blocks wide and four rows deep. The top row is a line block on the left carrying figures 1, 3 and 2 together, and a half-tone photographic block on the right carrying figure 4. The three rows below are all half-tone photographic blocks, one figure each: 5 left and 6 right; 7 left and 8 right; 9 left and 10 right. Figure 5's block contains three separate objects and figure 7's block five, but each block carries only its own single number.]

[NOTE: the figure numbers are NOT in layout order. Within the top-left line block, "1" stands at the top left, "3" below it at the lower left, and "2" to the right of "3" at mid-height — so the numerical order 1, 2, 3 runs top-left, then right, then lower-left. The [PLATE] block above lists the numbers in reading order down and across the leaf: 1 and 4 in the top row, then 3 and 2 lower in the top-left block, then 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 row by row.]

[NOTE: figure 4's numeral is reversed out WHITE against the dark background of its photograph, at the block's upper left. All the other numerals are printed solid black — figures 1, 2 and 3 on the white of the line block, figures 5-10 on the light grey of their photographs.]

[NOTE: two overlapping solid dark rectangles are printed across the middle right of figure 4's photograph, one larger and one smaller, masking part of the subject. They carry no text and are part of the block as printed — retouching or masking in the original photograph, not scanner damage.]

[NOTE: several long fine straight lines cross the specimens in figures 5 and 7 — two nearly horizontal in figure 5, one horizontal and one diagonal in figure 7. They are mounting wires or scratches in the photographic blocks, not rules or leaders, and carry no lettering.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark on this leaf. Isolated grey specks occur in the white margins around the blocks, including a small one low in the left margin and two in the right margin.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. The only square brackets above are transcriber markers.]

<<<PAGE pdf=261 file=page_261.txt>>>
[PAGE 261: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XIV

Nanomia cara A. Agassiz
From Sars, 1846, plate 5, figures 1-8

FIG. 1.	Whole animal

a = pneumatophore; b = nectophore; c = stem of nectosome; d = buds of nectophore; e = bract; f = gastrozooid; g = palpon; h = gonophore ♂; i = contracted tentacle.

FIG. 2.	Part of siphosome

a = gastrozooid; b = contracted tentacle; c = stem; d = bract; e = palpon; f = gonophore ♂; g (no guide line) = unripe gonophore ♂; h = gonodendron ♀.

FIG. 3.	Siphosome enlarged, bracts removed. a-h see figure 2

FIG. 4.	Gonophores

a = peduncle of gonodendra ♀; b = gonophores ♀.

FIGS. 5, 6.	Tentilla, enlarged

a = pedicel of tentillum; b = involucrum; c = cnidoband; d = end filament.

FIGS. 7, 8.	Agalma elegans: tentilla. It was the inclusion of this different species which caused the confusion described in the text

a-c as in figures 5, 6; d = ampulla; e = terminal filament.

Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)

FIG. 9.	Photograph of a living specimen 4 cm in length from Villefranche

Erenna richardi Bedot

FIG. 10.	Nectophore, × 1.8
FIG. 11.	Bracts, × 2

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE XIV; the facing leaf (PDF page 262) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The caption block runs from a little above the middle of the leaf to about two-thirds of the way down; the whole upper quarter and the whole lower third are blank apart from scan speckle.]

[NOTE: this is by far the fullest caption leaf in the plate section so far, and its layout is unusual and worth recording exactly. Each FIG. heading is CENTRED on its own line and carries only the subject, with no magnification and no closing full point; the key to that figure's own letters then follows as a separate paragraph set FULL MEASURE and flush left, in the ordinary text size. The keys are therefore per-figure, not one key for the whole plate as on PLATES IX-XII, and the same letters a, b, c, d … are re-used with different meanings from figure to figure. The tabs above stand for the printed spaces after "FIG. n." in the centred headings.]

[NOTE: the caption covers THREE species. "PLATE XIV" stands alone on its own centred line in spaced full capitals; then "Nanomia cara A. Agassiz" (species italic, authority roman) with its source line "From Sars, 1846, plate 5, figures 1-8", covering figures 1-8; then "Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje)" with figure 9 and no source line; then "Erenna richardi Bedot" with figures 10 and 11 and no source line.]

[NOTE: the printed male and female symbols are type and appear five times: "gonophore ♂" in FIG. 1's key; "gonophore ♂" and "unripe gonophore ♂" and "gonodendron ♀" in FIG. 2's key; and "gonodendra ♀" and "gonophores ♀" in FIG. 4's key. Transcribed with the Unicode signs ♂ and ♀. The FIG. 2 key uses the male sign twice and the female sign once; the FIG. 4 key uses the female sign twice.]

[NOTE: the FIGS. 7, 8 heading is exceptional. It opens with an italic species name and an italic colon, "Agalma elegans:", and then runs on in roman for two full printed lines of ordinary prose — "tentilla. It was the inclusion of this different species which caused the confusion described in the text" — the second line indented to align with the first, and no closing full point. It is the only caption entry on the leaf that comments on the taxonomy rather than describing a figure. The two printed lines are joined into one above; no line-break hyphen is involved.]

[NOTE: two entries cross-refer to other figures instead of giving their own key: FIG. 3's heading ends "a-h see figure 2", with a-h in italic, and the FIGS. 7, 8 key opens "a-c as in figures 5, 6". Both ranges are printed with en dashes and both are transcribed with a hyphen-minus above.]

[NOTE: the italic letters in every key are followed by a printed "=" sign. Many of these equals signs print faintly or with the two strokes unequal in this scan — notably in "a = pneumatophore", "e = bract", "a = peduncle", "e = terminal filament" — but all are equals signs, not the printer's error found on PDF page 259 where an equals sign stands where a multiplication sign belongs. The two magnifications on this leaf, in FIGS. 10 and 11, are printed with proper multiplication signs.]

[NOTE: the two FIG. entries at the foot, "FIG. 10.  Nectophore, × 1.8" and "FIG. 11.  Bracts, × 2", are the only entries on the leaf set as a conventional two-line indented list, and neither carries a closing full point. "1.8" is printed with a full point as a decimal.]

[NOTE: FIG. 2's key contains a parenthetical instruction to the reader: "g (no guide line) = unripe gonophore ♂", telling the reader that the letter g on the plate has no leader drawn to it. The parentheses are round brackets, not square.]

[NOTE: "FIG."/"FIGS." throughout is printed with a full-size F and small-capital following letters and is transcribed in full capitals. All numerals are printed in old-style (text) figures, so that 1 has no upper serif, 4 has an open bowl and 5, 8 and 9 have descenders; transcribed as ordinary digits. "1-8" is printed with an en dash. "1846", "4 cm", "1.8" and "2" are as printed.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind appears here. The parentheses in "(Chiaje)" and "(no guide line)" are round brackets, not square. Every square bracket above is a transcriber marker.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout.]

<<<PAGE pdf=262 file=page_262.txt>>>
[PAGE 262: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE XIV

1.
[?a]
[?d]
[?b]
[?b]
[?c]
[?c]
[?b]
[?b]
[?f]
[?i]
[?g]
[?f]
[?f]
[?i]
[?f]
[illegible]
[illegible]

7.
[?a]
[?b]
[?c]
[?d]
[?e]

8.
[?a]
[?b]
[?c]
[?d]
[illegible]
[illegible]

Tab. 5.

9.

3.
[?a]
[?e]
[?d]
[?g]
[?h]
[?f]
[?f]
[?b]
[?h]
[?a]
[?e]

2.
[?e]
[?b]
[?a]
[?c]
[?d]
[?e]
[?h]
[?h]
[?b]
[?h]
[?c]
[?d]
[?h]
[?g]
[?e]
[?e]

5.
[?a]
[?b]
[?c]
[?d]

6.
[?a]
[?b]
[?c]
[?d]

4.
[?a]
[?b]
[?b]

10.

11.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE XIV. Its caption, with a separate key for each figure, is on the facing leaf, PDF page 261; no caption text is repeated here. The plate is printed portrait on a portrait leaf and needs no rotation.]

[NOTE: "PLATE XIV" is set in bold full capitals in the top right corner of the leaf, above and clear of the plate, in the ordinary text orientation. It is the only text on the leaf outside the blocks.]

[NOTE: "Tab. 5." is engraved in ITALIC, with a full point after "Tab" and another after the numeral, in the top right corner INSIDE the large line block — it is part of the reproduced original, the plate number of Sars's own plate 5 of 1846, carried over with the engraving. It is not a marker of mine and not part of the British Museum plate numbering. It sits at about 0.64 of the leaf's width and 0.11 of its height. Reading order across the leaf puts it between figure 8 and figure 9, and that is where it is listed above.]

[NOTE: the plate is assembled from four blocks. (i) A large reproduced LINE block occupying the upper two-thirds of the plate and about three-quarters of its width, carrying figures 1-8 and the "Tab. 5." inscription — this is Sars's 1846 plate re-photographed down. (ii) A tall narrow half-tone photographic block down the upper right, carrying figure 9 alone, printed as a light subject against a very dark ground. (iii) A half-tone block at the lower left carrying figure 10. (iv) A half-tone block at the lower right carrying figure 11. Figures 9, 10 and 11 carry NO lettering at all, only their numerals, and are listed above with their number alone.]

[NOTE: the figure numbers are NOT in layout order, and the numbers were added by the British Museum in a heavy sans-serif face over the reproduced engraving. Positions as fractions of the leaf's width and height: 1 at (0.31, 0.12); 7 at (0.51, 0.12); 8 at (0.56, 0.12); 9 at (0.85, 0.13); 3 at (0.18, 0.15); 2 at (0.43, 0.16); 5 at (0.37, 0.32); 6 at (0.44, 0.32); 4 at (0.18, 0.34); 10 at (0.12, 0.71); 11 at (0.87, 0.85). The [PLATE] block above follows that reading order — top to bottom, left to right within a band — so the numerical sequence is broken. The numerals carry no following full point; the points in the [PLATE] block are mine, added only to separate the entries.]

[NOTE ON THE REFERENCE LETTERS — READ THIS BEFORE USING THEM. Every reference letter on figures 1-8 belongs to Sars's original engraving, is in small ITALIC lower case, and has been reduced with the rest of the block to roughly a third of its original size. On the scan each letter stands about five to eight pixels high. The embedded page image is 2550 x 3222 at 300 ppi, which is the native resolution of the source file, so no more detail can be had by re-rendering; contrast stretching and magnification to 12-15x were used for the readings above. EVERY reading is therefore flagged with [?], and the two on figure 1 and the two on figure 8 that resisted even that are given as [illegible]. The bracketed forms above are transcriber uncertainty markers, NOT printed brackets. No letter above was inferred from the key on the facing caption leaf; the readings are from the marks on the plate alone, and where they happen to agree with the key that is a check, not their source.]

[NOTE: the letters within each figure are listed above in top-to-bottom order, left and right sides interleaved by height, since the letters stand free in the white of the engraving on both sides of each subject and are joined to it by very fine ruled leaders. Counts found per figure: figure 1, seventeen marks; figure 2, sixteen; figure 3, eleven; figure 4, three; figure 5, four; figure 6, four; figure 7, five; figure 8, six. Figures 9, 10 and 11, none.]

[NOTE: SECOND OPINION WANTED. The letter inventories of figures 1, 2 and 3 should be treated as INCOMPLETE as well as uncertain. Those three figures are large, their letters are scattered over a wide field of fine line work at very low contrast, and while the plate was swept in overlapping tiles at 6x and the letter fields then re-examined at 12-15x, marks in the darker and busier passages may have been missed. Figures 4 to 8 are small and isolated and their inventories are believed complete. A reader with a better scan should re-do figures 1, 2 and 3 from scratch.]

[NOTE: figure 5 and figure 6 each carry exactly four letters in the same arrangement, one above the swelling and three beside and below it; figure 7 five and figure 8 six, in a closely similar arrangement, which is consistent with the caption leaf's statement that figures 7 and 8 repeat figures 5 and 6's lettering with two additions. Figure 4 carries three marks, one at the top and two down the right side, where the caption gives it only two letters — so one letter is used twice on that figure, or one of the three marks is not a letter.]

[NOTE: figure 9's block is very dark; the numeral "9" is reversed out WHITE at its top right. All the other numerals on the leaf are printed solid black. Figure 10's block carries two long fine curved lines crossing the specimen and a small pale ring at the upper left, both photographic and neither carrying text; figure 11's block shows several separate objects but only the single numeral at its lower right.]

[NOTE: there is no printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark on this leaf. Isolated grey specks occur in the white of the line block and in the margins; a small comma-shaped speck lies just right of figure 8, and a distinct dark round blot a little below it, and neither is type.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. Every square bracket above is a transcriber marker.]

<<<PAGE pdf=263 file=page_263.txt>>>
[PAGE 263: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XV	Physophora hydrostatica Forskål

Figures 1-8 from Sars, 1877, plate VI

FIG. 1.	Whole animal.
FIG. 2.	Gastrozooid.
FIGS. 3, 4.	Nectophores.
FIG. 5.	Part of a tentacle.
FIG. 6.	Tentillum, early growth stage.
FIG. 7.	Tentillum, late growth stage.
FIG. 8.	Activated cnidoband and elastic cords.
FIG. 9.	Photograph of the living animal, taking-off from the bottom of a tank, at Villefranche.
FIG. 10.	Another living animal reacting to a touch on the pneumatophore. The previously hidden gonophores can be seen.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE XV; the facing leaf (PDF page 264) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The caption block begins a little above the middle of the leaf and runs to about three-fifths of the way down; the whole upper third and the whole lower two-fifths are blank apart from scan speckle.]

[NOTE: as on PDF page 257, "PLATE XV" and the species name are set on ONE centred line, "PLATE XV" in spaced full capitals followed by a wide space, then "Physophora hydrostatica" in italic and "Forskål" in roman. There is no separate species line. The tab above stands for that printed space.]

[NOTE: "Forskål" is printed with the Scandinavian ring-a — a lower-case a carrying a small open ring above it — and with no other accent. It is transcribed with the Unicode character å. The spelling is Totton's; it is not the more common "Forsskål" with a double s.]

[NOTE: the source line is centred and covers only figures 1-8, "Figures 1-8 from Sars, 1877, plate VI". It prints "Figures" in full, in roman upper and lower case, not as "FIGS.". Figures 9 and 10 have no source line, being the author's own photographs.]

[NOTE: the ten FIG. entries are set as a conventional indented list, each on its own line, flush-left in the "FIG." column with the description indented to a common alignment. Only FIG. 10 runs to two printed lines; its second line, "can be seen.", is indented to align with the description column and is joined to the first above. No line-break hyphen is involved. Every entry closes with a full point — unlike the caption on PDF page 261, where none do.]

[NOTE: "taking-off" in FIG. 9 is printed with a hyphen, within a single line, and the hyphen is therefore retained.]

[NOTE: there is NO key to the lettering on this caption leaf, and no list of abbreviations. Nothing on the leaf tells the reader what the reference letters on the plate mean.]

[NOTE: "FIG."/"FIGS." in each entry is printed with a full-size F and small-capital following letters and is transcribed in full capitals. The tabs above stand for the printed spaces. All numerals are printed in old-style (text) figures, so that 1 has no upper serif, 5 and 7 have descenders and 0 is small; transcribed as ordinary digits. "1-8" is printed with an en dash; the source plate number is roman, "VI", and the plate number "XV".]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind appears here. There are no parentheses at all on the leaf. Every square bracket above is a transcriber marker.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout; the speckle is heavier on this leaf than on the neighbouring caption leaves, with several distinct dark specks in the lower blank half, and a small comma-shaped mark low in the left margin. None of it is type.]

<<<PAGE pdf=264 file=page_264.txt>>>
[PAGE 264: unnumbered]

[PLATE]
PLATE XV

7
6
1
2
3

4

8
5

[illegible]

10
9
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: this leaf is entirely occupied by PLATE XV. Its caption is on the facing leaf, PDF page 263; no caption text is repeated here. There is no printed folio, no running head and no printer's signature mark on this leaf.]

[NOTE: the plate is printed LANDSCAPE on a portrait leaf and the PDF carries no /Rotate flag, so it renders sideways. The leaf must be turned 90° CLOCKWISE for the plate to stand upright — i.e. the plate as printed is rotated 90° anticlockwise relative to the leaf, so that in the rendered portrait image the top of the plate is at the RIGHT-HAND edge. Every engraved numeral was read after rotating the image 90° CW, and the [PLATE] block above lists them in the reading order of the CORRECTED orientation.]

[NOTE: "PLATE XV" is set in bold full capitals and is the one piece of text on the leaf that is NOT rotated — it is upright in the ordinary portrait orientation, in the top right corner of the leaf, above and clear of the plate. In the corrected landscape orientation it therefore reads bottom-to-top down the right-hand edge. It is the only text on the leaf outside the blocks.]

[NOTE: the plate is assembled from three half-tone/line blocks, described here in the CORRECTED landscape orientation. (i) A reproduced LINE block filling the upper left, roughly the left half of the width and the upper two-thirds of the height, carrying figures 1-8. (ii) A photographic half-tone block filling the whole right-hand third of the plate, full height, carrying figure 9 alone. (iii) A photographic half-tone block at the lower left, below block (i), carrying figure 10 alone. Figures 9 and 10 carry no lettering at all, only their numerals.]

[NOTE: the figure numbers are NOT in layout order and the numbering runs right to left across the top of the line block. Positions as fractions of the width and height of the CORRECTED landscape view: 7 at (0.13, 0.16); 6 at (0.20, 0.16); 1 at (0.29, 0.14); 2 at (0.37, 0.17); 3 at (0.44, 0.15); 4 at (0.44, 0.28); 5 at (0.44, 0.42); 8 at (0.15, 0.43); the illegible mark at (0.49, 0.59); 10 at (0.44, 0.86); 9 at (0.88, 0.84). The [PLATE] block above follows that reading order — top to bottom, and left to right within a band — which is why the numerical sequence is broken. The numerals carry no following full point and none is added above.]

[NOTE: there are NO reference letters anywhere on this plate. Each of the eleven figures carries its numeral and nothing else. The line block was swept quadrant by quadrant at 3x and the white ground around every subject re-examined; no italic letter, no leader line and no other lettering is present. This plate is unlike PLATE XIV on PDF page 262, where the reproduced Sars engraving carried a full set of italic reference letters — consistent with the caption leaf on PDF page 263 carrying no key.]

[NOTE: the numerals on figures 1-8, in the reproduced line block, are printed solid black in a heavy sans-serif face and are large and perfectly legible; they were added by the British Museum over the reproduced engraving. The numerals on figures 9 and 10 are the same face but are reversed out WHITE against the dark photographic ground, 9 at the lower right of its block and 10 at the lower right of its block.]

[NOTE: the "[illegible]" entry above is a very faint mark low in the white ground of the line block, near its right-hand edge and below figure 5, at about (0.49, 0.59) of the corrected view. It is roughly circular and looks like two small stacked rings or lobes, about 25 x 35 pixels on a 300 ppi render. It was examined at 12x and 20x with contrast stretched and cannot be resolved. It MAY be a faint printed inscription carried over with the reproduced engraving — the position, at the lower right corner inside the block, is where the "Tab. 5." inscription sits on the analogous reproduced block of PLATE XIV — but it may equally be a blot or a scan artefact, and no reading of it is offered. The embedded page image is 2550 x 3223 at 300 ppi, the native resolution of the source file, so no further detail can be had by re-rendering.]

[NOTE: a small solid dot sits just right of and above figure 1's numeral, at about (0.32, 0.15) of the corrected view, and another below figure 7 at about (0.16, 0.35); a small white flake shows in the ground at about (0.10, 0.24). None of the three is type. A faint dot also touches the numeral 6 at its upper right, and may be either an ink speck or a full point; it is not transcribed as a full point because the other ten numerals on the leaf carry none.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets and no editorial query marks appear on this leaf. Every square bracket above is a transcriber marker.]

[NOTE: isolated grey scan specks occur in the wide white margins of the leaf, three of them in the lower margin and one in the upper.]

<<<PAGE pdf=265 file=page_265.txt>>>
[PAGE 265: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XVI

Lychnagalma utricularia (Claus)
From Claus, 1879, plate 1, figures 1, 2, 5a, b, c, d, f

FIG. 1.	Whole animal.
FIG. 2.	Tentillum.
FIG. 3.	Dorsal view of an upper nectophore (ventral view in Claus's terminology).
FIG. 4.	Ventro-ostial view of a lower nectophore (lower and ventral view in Claus's terminology).
FIG. 5.	Lateral view of same.
FIG. 6.	Dorsal view of same (ventral view in Claus's terminology).
FIG. 7.	Ventral view of an upper nectophore (dorsal view in Claus's terminology).

All the following terms, except the last, are translations of those used by Claus: SK = lateral ridge; DK = dorsal ridge; VK¹ = medial-lateral ridge; VK² = ventro-lateral ridge; UK = lower ridge; TK = transverse ridge; KF = wedge-shaped process; Z = socket (for stem); DF = dorso-lateral facet; VG = dorsal radial canal.

Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni Moser
From Moser, 1925, plate 29, figures 1, 10, 11

FIG. 8.	Reconstruction by Moser of a large specimen showing the nectosome (less the pneumatophore and nectophore) and part of the siphosome (less most of the bracts), × 2.
FIG. 9.	Three gastrozooids, × 2.3.
FIG. 10.	Part of the stem to show palpons, × 3.

[NOTE: caption leaf for PLATE XVI; the facing leaf (PDF page 266) is the plate itself. Unfoliated — no printed folio, no signature mark. The caption block begins a little above the middle of the leaf and runs to about three-fifths of the way down; the whole upper third and the whole lower two-fifths are blank apart from scan speckle.]

[NOTE: the layout, from the top of the caption block down. "PLATE XVI" stands alone on its own centred line in spaced full capitals. Then the first species heading, centred: "Lychnagalma utricularia" in italic and "(Claus)" in roman, with round brackets. Then its centred source line "From Claus, 1879, plate 1, figures 1, 2, 5a, b, c, d, f", in roman upper and lower case, printing "figures" in full and NOT as "FIGS.", and with no closing full point. Then figures 1-7 as a conventional two-column indented list. Then the key paragraph, set FULL MEASURE and flush left, running to three printed lines. Then the second species heading, centred: "Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni" in italic and "Moser" in roman, with no brackets and no closing full point. Then its centred source line "From Moser, 1925, plate 29, figures 1, 10, 11", again with no closing full point. Then figures 8-10 as a two-column indented list.]

[NOTE: the caption covers TWO species and the key paragraph belongs only to the first. Figures 1-7 are Lychnagalma utricularia from Claus 1879; figures 8-10 are Pyrostephos vanhoeffeni from Moser 1925.]

[NOTE: the key on this leaf is NOT the usual italic lower-case a, b, c list. It is a running prose sentence introducing German abbreviations in italic CAPITALS — SK, DK, VK¹, VK², UK, TK, KF, Z, DF, VG — each followed by a printed "=" sign and an English gloss, the glosses separated by semicolons. "VK¹" and "VK²" are printed with true SUPERSCRIPT arabic numerals 1 and 2 following the italic capitals, transcribed above with the Unicode superscripts ¹ and ². The sentence opens "All the following terms, except the last, are translations of those used by Claus:" — the exception being VG, the last entry, which is Totton's own. There is no key at all for figures 8-10.]

[NOTE: several of the printed equals signs in the key paragraph are inked unevenly in this scan, the two strokes of unequal length or the upper stroke broken — notably in "DK =", "Z =" and "DF =" — but all ten are equals signs. The three magnifications in figures 8, 9 and 10 are printed with proper multiplication signs, ×, not with equals signs.]

[NOTE: "FIG." in every entry is printed with a full-size F and small-capital IG followed by a full point, and is transcribed in full capitals. The tabs above stand for the printed space between "FIG. n." and the description. All numerals in the text are printed in old-style (text) figures, so that 1 has no upper serif, 2 sits on the line, 5, 7 and 9 have descenders and 0 is small; transcribed as ordinary digits. Every FIG. entry closes with a full point. Only FIG. 8 runs to two printed lines; its second line begins "phore and nectophore)", completing "pneumato-" broken at the end of the first line, and the line-break hyphen has been silently removed above to give "pneumatophore".]

[NOTE: "Claus's" is printed with an apostrophe and a second s, and occurs four times, in the descriptions to figures 3, 4, 6 and 7. "Ventro-ostial", "dorso-lateral", "medial-lateral", "ventro-lateral" and "wedge-shaped" are printed with hyphens within a single line and the hyphens are therefore retained.]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this leaf, and no editorial query mark of any kind appears here. The only brackets on the leaf are the round brackets in "(Claus)", "(ventral view in Claus's terminology)", "(lower and ventral view in Claus's terminology)", "(dorsal view in Claus's terminology)", "(for stem)", "(less the pneumatophore and nectophore)" and "(less most of the bracts)". Every square bracket above is a transcriber marker.]

[NOTE: faint grey scan speckle covers the blank areas of the leaf throughout, more thinly than on the neighbouring caption leaves; a small dark comma-shaped mark lies in the left margin at about a fifth of the way down, and isolated specks stand in the blank lower half.]

<<<PAGE pdf=266 file=page_266.txt>>>
[PAGE 266: unnumbered]

[NOTE: full-page plate. The plate image is printed landscape, rotated 90° counter-clockwise relative to the page (rotate the page 90° clockwise to view the figures upright). The heading "PLATE XVI" is set upright in the portrait orientation, at the top right of the page.]

PLATE XVI

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order of the landscape orientation: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Fig. 1 [no lettering]
Fig. 2	TB
Fig. 3	Z	DK	VK'
Fig. 4	VK'	DK	SK	VK	TK	VK"
Fig. 5	SK
Fig. 6	DK	VG	VK.²
Fig. 7	Z	DK	SF
Fig. 8 [no lettering]
Fig. 9 [no lettering]
Fig. 10 [no lettering]
[/PLATE]

<<<PAGE pdf=267 file=page_267.txt>>>
[PAGE 267: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XVII  Athorybia rosacea (Forskål)

Figures 1-5 from Bigelow, 1911b, plate 20, figures 7-11

FIG. 1.   Whole animal, less bracts.
FIG. 2.   Tentillum, dendritic type, half grown.
FIG. 3.   Tentillum, involucrate type, fully grown.
FIG. 4.   Palpon and base of palpacle.
FIG. 5.   Tentillum, tricornuate type, young growth stage.

L.Mu = muscular lamellae of bracts; Am = ampulla; l = involucre; X = marginal spur of involucre; F = (fig. 4) = palpacle; F (fig. 5) = lateral horn.

Figures 6-16 from Kölliker, 1853, plate 7, figures 1-11

FIG. 6.   Whole animal.

a = pneumatophore; b = palpon; c = bract; d = gastrozooid; e = tentacle.

FIG. 7.   Part of tentacle, enlarged.

a = tentacle; b = tentillum; c = cnidoband; d = lateral horns; e = terminal ampulla; f = part of cnidosac (marginal spur of involucre). The division between e and f is an artifact. Cf. figure 3.

FIG. 8.   Tip of palpon.

a = lumen; b = ciliated endoderm; c = ectoderm; d = nematocysts; e = extensile tip.

FIG. 9.   Female medusoid gonophore.

a = ectoderm; b = endoderm; c = velum; d = ostium; e = radial canal; f = pedicular canal; h = ovum; i = spadix of manubrium.

FIG. 10.   Female and male gonophores.
FIG. 11.   Spermatozoa.
FIG. 12.   Distal end of a bract.
FIG. 13.   A large nematocyst from the base of the cnidoband.
FIG. 14.   Lateral view of bract.

a = base; b = longitudinal ridge.

FIG. 15.   Proximal view of a bract.

a = bracteal canal; b = attached side; c = longitudinal ridge.

FIG. 16.   Endoderm cells of a gastrozooid.

<<<PAGE pdf=268 file=page_268.txt>>>
[PAGE 268: unnumbered]

PLATE XVII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.

Lettering, figure by figure (all lettering is very small and faint):
Fig. 1	L. Mu.
Fig. 2	[no lettering]
Fig. 3	Am.	X.	l.
Fig. 4	F.
Fig. 5	F.	Am.
Fig. 6	b	a	b	b	c	c	c	d	d	e	e	e
Fig. 7	a	b	b	c	f	d	d	e
Fig. 8	c	d	a	b	e
Fig. 9	d	e	g	h	b	i	c	e	a	e	h	i	f
Fig. 10	a	b
Fig. 11	[no lettering]
Fig. 12	[no lettering]
Fig. 13	[no lettering]
Fig. 14	b	a
Fig. 15	c	a	b
Fig. 16	[no lettering]
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the lettering of figures 6-9 and 14-15 is printed in minute italic type; individual letters were read at high magnification but several are close to the limit of legibility, in particular the ring of letters around figure 9, where the letter read as "h" at the lower right could be "k".]

<<<PAGE pdf=269 file=page_269.txt>>>
[PAGE 269: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XVIII

Stephalia corona Haeckel

FIG. 1.   Whole animal (Dundee specimen) to show the pneumatophore and corona of nectophores.
FIG. 2.   Under surface of the same to show cormidial groups, gastrozooids and palpons.
FIG. 3.   Lateral view, enlarged to show gonophores.
FIG. 4.   A bract of the Dundee specimen.

Angelopsis dilata Bigelow
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 21, figures 6-8

FIG. 5.   A cormidium.
FIG. 6.   Whole animal, radial section through the float.
FIG. 7.   Photograph of the whole animal.

Au = aurophore; C = network of canals; Ca.H = hypocystic chamber; Go = gonophore; L.Mu = muscular lamella of the nectophore; N = nectophore; P = palpon; Pn.c = pneumatocodon; Pn.S = pneumatosaccus; S = gastrozooid; T = tentacle.

<<<PAGE pdf=270 file=page_270.txt>>>
[PAGE 270: unnumbered]

PLATE XVIII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Figs. 1-4	[no lettering]
Fig. 5	Go.	P.	T.
Fig. 6	Au.	Ca. H.	L. Mu.	N.	C.	S.
Fig. 7	Au.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: figures 1-4 and 7 are halftone photographs; figures 5 and 6 are line drawings. The lettering is minute italic type and was read at high magnification.]

<<<PAGE pdf=271 file=page_271.txt>>>
[PAGE 271: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XIX

Archangelopsis typica Lens & van Riemsdijk

FIG. 1.   Whole animal. From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate 18, figure 137.

pn = pneumatophore; z.pr = zone of proliferation; s = gastrozooid; t = tentacle; n = nectophore

FIG. 2.   Whole animal. From Bigelow, 1913, plate 6, figure 1.

Dromalia alexandri Bigelow
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 23, figures 6-9

FIG. 3.   Whole animal.
FIG. 4.   Gonodendron.
FIG. 5.   Whole animal.
FIG. 6.   Tentillum.

X = aurophore; L.Mu = muscular lamellae of the nectophores; B.S = buds of gastrozooids; B.N = bud of nectophore; St, St.S = pedicel of cormidial group; Go1, 2 = gonodendra; S1-S3 = gastrozooids.

[NOTE: in the final paragraph "Go1, 2" and "S1-S3" are printed with superscript figures: Go with superscripts 1 and 2, and S superscript 1 to S superscript 3.]

<<<PAGE pdf=272 file=page_272.txt>>>
[PAGE 272: unnumbered]

PLATE XIX

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Fig. 1	pn	z.pr.	t	n	t	s	t
Fig. 2	[no lettering]
Fig. 3	B. N.	B. S.	L. Mu.	X.
Fig. 4	P.	T.	S.[?reading: superscript figure illegible, probably 1]	Go.[?reading: superscript 1]	St.	Go.²	S.³	S.²
Fig. 5	X.	L. Mu.	St. S.
Fig. 6	[no lettering]
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: figures 2, 3 and 5 are halftone photographs; figures 1, 4 and 6 are line drawings. The lettering is minute italic type read at high magnification; the superscript figures on the "S." and "Go." labels of figure 4 are at the limit of legibility.]

<<<PAGE pdf=273 file=page_273.txt>>>
[PAGE 273: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XX

Forskalia edwardsi Kölliker
FIG. 1.   Whole animal. From Kölliker, 1853, plate 1, figure 1

a = pneumatophore; a' = buds of nectophores; b = nectophore; b' = stem of nectosome; c = buds of cormidial groups; d = gastrozooid; e = bract; f = gonodendra; g = palpon; h = tentacle; i = stem of siphosome.

FIG. 2.   Part of the stem of a living specimen (nectosome hidden in the bottom left-hand corner).

Forskalia leuckarti Bedot
FIG. 3.   Specimen from the Museum, Station Zoologique, Villefranche.
FIG. 4.   Nectophore, from Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861, plate 5, figure 23.

Forskalia formosa Keff. & Ehlers
FIG. 5.   Nectophore from K. & E. loc. cit. plate 5, figure 22.

<<<PAGE pdf=274 file=page_274.txt>>>
[PAGE 274: unnumbered]

PLATE XX

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

Lettering:
Fig. 1	a	a'	b	b'	c	h	d	i	g	f	h	d	e
Figs. 2-5	[no lettering]
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: figures 2 and 3 are halftone photographs, figure 1 a reproduced lithograph, figures 4 and 5 line drawings. The lettering of figure 1 is minute italic type placed at the right and left margins of the drawing; the letters listed above are given in top-to-bottom order as far as they could be made out at high magnification, and several are at the limit of legibility.]

<<<PAGE pdf=275 file=page_275.txt>>>
[PAGE 275: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXI

Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje)
FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase (one nectophore lost). Living specimen photographed at Villefranche.

Maresearsia praeclara Totton
From Totton, 1954, plate 7, figures 1-5

FIGS. 2-5.   Eudoxid phase.
FIG. 2.   To show eudoxids still attached to the stem-groups.
FIG. 3.   Complete eudoxid.
FIG 4.   Gonophores.
FIG. 5.   Bract of eudoxid.

Amphicaryon acaule Chun
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 4, figure 1

FIG. 6.   Polygastric phase.

N.P. = older nectophore (fide A.K.T.); N.A. = younger nectophore; Ns.P, Ns.A = the respective nectosacs.

[NOTE: the entry for figure 4 is printed "FIG 4." without the point after FIG, as transcribed; the other entries have "FIG.".]

<<<PAGE pdf=276 file=page_276.txt>>>
[PAGE 276: unnumbered]

PLATE XXI

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.

Lettering:
Figs. 1-5	[no lettering]
Fig. 6	N.P.	N.A.	Ns.A.	Ns.P.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: figures 1-5 are halftone photographs, figure 6 a line drawing. There is a faint smudge of ink in the left-hand margin beside figure 1, and a broken rule at the lower left of the plate.]

<<<PAGE pdf=277 file=page_277.txt>>>
[PAGE 277: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXII

Rosacea cymbiformis (Chiaje)
From Bigelow 1911b, plate 2, figures 1, 4

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, × 2.5.
FIG. 2.   Eudoxid phase, × 15.

N.P. = older nectophore; N.A = younger nectophore; St = stem; S = gastrozooid; Go = gonophore; H = hydroecium; T = tentacle; Te = tentillum; E = egg; C.br = bracteal canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; S.Ba = basigaster of gastrozooid.

FIG. 3.   Polygastric phase, from Kawamura 1915, plate 7, figure 4, × 5/8.

hy = hydroecium; n1-3 = nectophores; ns1 = respective nectosac; C = somatocyst; br = bract; C.br = central organ; tr = stem; Sp.n = special nectophore; p = gastrozooid.

Desmophyes annectens Haeckel

From Kawamura, 1915, plate 7, figures 6-8

FIG. 4.   Polygastric phase, × 4.
FIG. 5.   Eudoxid phase dorsal view, × 16.
FIG. 6.   Eudoxid phase lateral view, × 16.

[NOTE: in the FIG. 3 line the magnification is printed as the vulgar fraction five-eighths (5 over 8), here written "5/8". In the paragraph following it, "n1-3" is printed with subscript "1-3" and "ns1" with subscript 1.]

<<<PAGE pdf=278 file=page_278.txt>>>
[PAGE 278: unnumbered]

PLATE XXII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Fig. 1	N.P.	N.A.
Fig. 2	.C.Br.	St.	H.	C.Ped.	S.Ba.	T.	E.	Go.	S.	Te.
Fig. 3	hy	n3	n2	n1	ns1	hy	hy	t	br	sp.n
Fig. 4	hy	C.	n1	n2	ns1	hy	hy	br	tr	t
Fig. 5	br	C.br	tr	sp.n	p	t
Fig. 6	br	tr	sp.n	p
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: in figures 3 and 4 the figures on the "n" and "ns" labels are printed as subscripts (n subscript 1, n subscript 2, n subscript 3, ns subscript 1). The label at the upper right of figure 2 is printed with a leading point, ".C.Br.", as transcribed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=279 file=page_279.txt>>>
[PAGE 279: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXIII

Praya reticulata (Bigelow)
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 3, figures 1, 2, 4, 6

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, ventral view of nectophore, × 2.
FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, lateral view of same, × 2.
FIG. 3.   Eudoxid phase, bract, × 3.
FIG. 4.   Polygastric phase. Oblique apico-ventral view of the nectosac, × 5.

C.Br = bracteal canal; C.pa = pallial canal; C.ped = pedicular canal; C.Su = radial canal network; H = hydroecium; Ns = nectosac.

Nectopyramis diomediae Bigelow
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 1, figure 5

FIG. 5.   Eudoxid phase. C.Br1-C.Br3 = bracteal canals; Ns = nectosac.

Praya dubia (Q. & G.)
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 3, figures 8, 9

FIG. 6.   Polygastric phase, lateral view of a nectophore, × 2.

Ns = nectosac; St = stem; H = hydroecium; C.pa = pallial canal; C = pedicular canal; C.su = radial canal network.

FIG. 7.   Polygastric phase, ventral view of nectophore.

C.pa1, C.pa2 = lateral branches of the pallial canal.

[NOTE: superscript figures are printed in "C.Br1-C.Br3" (FIG. 5) and in "C.pa1, C.pa2" (last line); they are here written on the line.]

<<<PAGE pdf=280 file=page_280.txt>>>
[PAGE 280: unnumbered]

PLATE XXIII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Fig. 1	C.Pa.	Ns.
Fig. 2	C.Pa.
Fig. 3	C.Br.	C.Br.	H.
Fig. 4	C.Ped.	C.Su.	Ns.	C.Pa.
Fig. 5	C.Br.¹	C.Br.²	C.Br.³	Go.
Fig. 6	St.	C.Pa.	C.
Fig. 7	C.Pa.	C.Pa.¹	C.Pa.	Ns.	H.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the figures on the C.Br. and C.Pa. labels of figures 5 and 7 are printed as superscripts.]

<<<PAGE pdf=281 file=page_281.txt>>>
[PAGE 281: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXIV  Desmophyes annectens Haeckel

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase. From Chun, 1897, simplified from Haeckel (1888b, Pl. 30).

br = bract; go.♂, go.♀ = male and female gonophores; n = nectophore; n.sp = special nectophore; p = gastrozooid; t = tentacle.

FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, stem extended. From Vogt, 1854, plate 16, figure 1.

Figures 3-9 from Kölliker, 1853, plate 9, figures 1-8

FIG. 3.   Polygastric phase.

a = nectophore; b = upper end of siphosome; c = pallial canal; d = somatocyst; e = pedicular canal; f = nectosac; g = bud of gastrozooid; h = gastrozooid; i = bract; k = nectophore of eudoxid; l = tentilum; m = siphosome; n = median pear-shaped vesicle or central organ.

FIG. 4.   Eudoxid phase.

a = stem of siphosome; b = nectophore of eudoxid; c = gastrozooid; d = tentillum; e = central organ; f = bract; g = lateral canals; h = hydroecial canals; i = ventral canal.

FIG. 5.   A lateral nematocyst from cnidosac, × 15.
FIG. 6.   Small nematocysts from the terminal filament.
FIG. 7.   Bract of eudoxid.

a = hydroecium; b = central organ; c = lateral canal; d = hydroecial canal; e = ventral canal.

FIG. 8.   Nectophore, dorsal view.

a = nectosac; b = ostium of same; c = somatocyst; d = pedicular canal.

FIG. 9.   Tentillum.

a = pedicel; b = proximal end of elastic band; b1 = enlarged part of same; c = cnidoband; d = terminal filament.

[NOTE: in the FIG. 3 paragraph "tentilum" is printed thus, with a single medial l, as transcribed; the FIG. 4 paragraph has "tentillum". In the FIG. 1 paragraph the male and female signs are printed after "go."; in the last line "b1" is printed with a superscript 1.]

<<<PAGE pdf=282 file=page_282.txt>>>
[PAGE 282: unnumbered]

PLATE XXIV

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Fig. 1	n.	n	br.	go♀	n.sp.	br	n.	go♂	n.sp.
Fig. 2	[no lettering]
Fig. 3	[illegible] (single italic letters scattered over the drawing, too small to read)
Fig. 4	[illegible] (single italic letters scattered over the drawing, too small to read)
Figs. 5, 6	[no lettering]
Fig. 7	[illegible] (single italic letters, too small to read)
Fig. 8	[illegible] (single italic letters, too small to read)
Fig. 9	[illegible] (single italic letters, too small to read)
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: in figure 1 the male and female signs follow "go" without a point, printed "go♂" and "go♀". The reference letters of figures 3, 4 and 7-9 are printed in type so small, and on so grey a ground, that individual letters cannot be resolved at 300 dpi; they are marked [illegible] rather than guessed.]

<<<PAGE pdf=283 file=page_283.txt>>>
[PAGE 283: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXV  Stephanophyes superba Chun

From Chun, 1891, plate 1.

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, whole animal.
FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, part of the stem.

n1-n4 = nectophores; su = nectosac; t.pr = palpacle; t = tentacle of gastrozooid; n.sp = asexual nectophore of the eudoxid group; br = bract; pa = palpon; ma.♂ = manubrium of ♂ gonophore; n.u = tentillum of the palpacle; ol(br) = oil-drop; p.p, p.in = peduncle of gastrozooid; go.d.♂ = male gonophore; go.d.♀ = female gonophore; b.g = basigaster of gastrozooid; in = stem internode; ve = velum. Note the palpons in the stem internodes.

[NOTE: "n1-n4" is printed with superscript figures (n superscript 1 to n superscript 4). The male and female signs are printed in the text as shown.]

<<<PAGE pdf=284 file=page_284.txt>>>
[PAGE 284: unnumbered]

PLATE XXV

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate: 1, 2.

Lettering:
Fig. 1	n²	c.ol.	n¹	n³	n⁴	su.	ve.	t.pr.	n.sp.	in.	tr.	br.	p.	t.	p.p.
Fig. 2	go.d.♂	ol.br.	go.d.♀	ma.♂	p.in.	p.p.	b.g.	n.sp.	t.pr.	t	t.pr.	n.u.	pa	br.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the figures on the "n" labels of figure 1 are printed as superscripts. In figure 2 the male and female signs follow "go.d." and "ma.".]

<<<PAGE pdf=285 file=page_285.txt>>>
[PAGE 285: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXVI  Stephanophyes superba Chun

From Chun, 1891, plate 3, figure 1

FIG. 1.   Part of the stem showing two stem-groups of the polygastric phase with asexual nectophores, a male (on the left) and a female gonophore and a cluster of the unique palpons, each carrying a tentacle with many tentilla.

From Kawamura, 1915, plate 7, figures 9, 10

FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase.
FIG. 3.   A single stem-group of the same.

n1-n3 = nectophores; ns = nectosac; c = branch of the pallial canal (somatocyst); br = bract; t = tentacle; sp.n = asexual nectophore; c.br = bracteal canal; st.l.br = muscular attachment of bract; tr = stem; p = gastrozooid; st.l.n = muscular attachment of asexual nectophore of eudoxid; p' = palpon; go.♂, go.♀ = male and female gonophores; t.pr = palpacle.

[NOTE: "n1-n3" is printed with superscript figures (n superscript 1 to n superscript 3). The male and female signs are printed after "go." as shown.]

<<<PAGE pdf=286 file=page_286.txt>>>
[PAGE 286: unnumbered]

PLATE XXVI

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3.

Lettering, figure by figure:
Fig. 1	[no lettering]
Fig. 2	n2	c.	n3	n1	ns	t	br	tr	sp.n.
Fig. 3	c.br.	stl.br	br	stl.n	P	sp.n	ns	p'	tr	p	go♂	go♀	c br	t pr	t
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: in figure 2 the figures on the "n" labels are printed as subscripts (n subscript 1, n subscript 2, n subscript 3). Figure 3 is lettered "stl.br" and "stl.n" (not "st.l.br" and "st.l.n" as in the facing caption); the male and female signs follow "go".]

<<<PAGE pdf=287 file=page_287.txt>>>
[PAGE 287: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXVII

Lilyopsis rosea Chun
From Bedot, 1895, plate 12, figure 1

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase.

Nectopyramis spinosa Sears
From Totton, 1954, plate 5

FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase showing obsolescent nectosac on the left, 'Discovery' St. 1179, 500-250 m.

Vogtia serrata (Moser)
From Moser, 1925, plate 27, figure 7

FIG. 3.   Nectophore.

Nectopyramis natans (Bigelow)
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 20, figure 16

FIG. 4.   Eudoxid phase. Br = bract; N = asexual nectophore; Go = gonophore.

<<<PAGE pdf=288 file=page_288.txt>>>
[PAGE 288: unnumbered]

PLATE XXVII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4.

Lettering:
Figs. 1-3	[no lettering]
Fig. 4	Br	N	Go
[/PLATE]

<<<PAGE pdf=289 file=page_289.txt>>>
[PAGE 289: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXVIII  Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål)

From Vogt 1854, plate 12, figures 1-3

FIG. 1.   Whole animal.
FIG. 2.   Nectophore.
FIG. 3.   Parasitic trematodes.

<<<PAGE pdf=290 file=page_290.txt>>>
[PAGE 290: unnumbered]

PLATE XXVIII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3.

No other lettering.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the plate is printed as a negative-like halftone, the figures appearing white on a dark grey ground; the figure numbers are white.]

<<<PAGE pdf=291 file=page_291.txt>>>
[PAGE 291: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXIX

Hippopodius hippopus (Forskål)
FIGS. 1-3.   Photographs of living animals, Villefranche, × 6. The appendages of the contracted stem are viewed through the transparent nectophores. Figure 3 shows the sub-umbrella cavity fully expanded.

Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville
FIG. 4.   Photograph to show 'reserve' buds of nectophores 3, 4, 5. The first and second definitive nectophores were removed to reveal the buds. Specimen taken by H.M. Survey Ship 'Challenger', 1950-51.

<<<PAGE pdf=292 file=page_292.txt>>>
[PAGE 292: unnumbered]

PLATE XXIX

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4.

Within figure 4, leader lines are labelled: 5, 4, 3.

No other lettering.
[/PLATE]

<<<PAGE pdf=293 file=page_293.txt>>>
[PAGE 293: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXX  Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville

From Vogt, 1854, plate 8

Figures 1-4 Polygastric phase
FIG. 1.   With female gonophores.
FIG. 2.   With male gonophores.
FIG. 3.   Posterior nectophore.
FIG. 4.   Posterior nectophore, ostial view.

<<<PAGE pdf=294 file=page_294.txt>>>
[PAGE 294: unnumbered]

PLATE XXX

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4.

No other lettering.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the plate is reproduced as a negative-like halftone, the figures appearing white on a dark ground; the figure numbers are white and small, and whether each carries a following full stop cannot be determined with confidence.]

<<<PAGE pdf=295 file=page_295.txt>>>
[PAGE 295: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXI

Sulculeolaria quadrivalvis Blainville

Figures 1-3 from Bigelow, 1911b, plate 5, figures 1-3
FIG. 1.   Lateral view of the posterior nectophore, × 4.5.
FIG. 2.   Lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 4.
FIG. 3.   Ostial view of the posterior nectophore, × 8.
So = somatocyst; To.D¹, To.D² = dorsal teeth; To.L = lateral tooth; W.V = mouth-plates of basal wings.

Sulculeolaria monoica (Chun)

Figures 5-7 from Bigelow, 1911b, plate 6, figures 1, 6, 7
Figures 10, 12 from Bigelow, 1911b, plate 6, figures 4, 9
FIG. 5.   Lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 9.
FIG. 6.   Anterior nectophore, ostial view.
FIG. 7.   Posterior nectophore, lateral view of the ostium, × 16.
So = somatocyst; To.L, To.D = lateral and dorsal tooth; W.V = basal wing; X = secondary spines of basal wing.
FIG. 10.   Posterior nectophore, lateral view, × 8.
FIG. 12.   Posterior nectophore, dorsal view of the ostium.
To.D = dorsal tooth; To.L¹, To.L² = lateral teeth.

Sulculeolaria turgida (Gegenbaur)
Figures 8, 9 from Gegenbaur, 1854, plate 23, figures 1, 3

FIG. 8.   Whole animal, polygastric phase.
A = anterior nectophore; B = posterior nectophore; a = ostium; b, b' = mouth-plate; c = nectosac; d = lateral radial canal; e = stem of siphosome; f = eudoxid.
FIG. 9.   Posterior nectophore of same.

Lensia campanella (Moser)
From Moser, 1925, plate 4, figure 1

FIG. 4.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, × 6.

Lensia conoidea (Keff. & Ehlers)
From Moser, 1925, plate 4, figure 3

FIG. 11.   Eudoxid phase, × 18.

<<<PAGE pdf=296 file=page_296.txt>>>
[PAGE 296: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXI

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 11, 10.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 2: So.
Fig. 3: To D.¹   To D.²   To L.   W. V
Fig. 5: To.L.   So.   W.V.
Fig. 6: To.D.
Fig. 7: To.L   X.
Fig. 8: A   d   d   B   c   a   c   b   a   b   f   f   f
Fig. 12: To.D   To.L.²   To.L.[?¹]
[/PLATE]

<<<PAGE pdf=297 file=page_297.txt>>>
[PAGE 297: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXII

Muggiaea kochi (Will)
From Chun, 1883, plate 17, figure 2

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, × 60.
k = ridge; s = somatocyst; m = gastrozooid; d = bract; g.sch = gonophore; x = bud of second gonophore; st = stem.
FIG. 2.   From Moser, 1925, plate 1, figure 1. Polygastric phase, × 12.

Muggiaea atlantica Cunningham
From Moser, 1925, plate 1, figure 5

FIG. 3.   Polygastric phase, × 12.

Chelophyes appendiculata (Eschscholtz)
From Lochman, 1914, plate 1, figure 1

FIG. 4.   Polygastric phase with larval nectophore still attached.
l = larval nectophore; B = anterior nectophore; br = bract; C = bud of posterior nectophore; c.ol = somatocyst; go = gonophore; p = gastrozooid; tr = stem.

Eudoxoides spiralis (Bigelow)
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 8, figures 2, 1

FIG. 5.   Polygastric phase, ventral view of the anterior nectophore, × 20.

FIG. 6.   Lateral view of the anterior nectophore, × 20.
H = hydroecium; R.D = dorsal ridge; R.L = left ridge; R.V¹, R.V² = right and left ventral ridges; So = somatocyst.

Chelophyes contorta (L. & v. R.)
From Moser, 1925, plate 13.

FIG. 7.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, lateral view, × 13.
V.K = Ventral ridge.

From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 8, figure 3

FIG. 8.   Anterior nectophore, apical view, × 12.
So = somatocyst; R.L¹, R.L² = lateral ridges; V¹, R.V² = ventral ridges.

<<<PAGE pdf=298 file=page_298.txt>>>
[PAGE 298: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 1: k   s   m   x   g.sch.   d   s   st   d   g.sch.
Fig. 4: col   col   B   C   l   tr   go   br   p
Fig. 5: R. V.[?¹]   R. V.[?²]   R. L.   R. L.   [?No.]   H.
Fig. 6: R. D.   R. L.
Fig. 7: Vk.
Fig. 8: So.   R. V.²   V.¹   R.   R. L.¹
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: in figure 5 the two superscript figures on the "R. V." labels are printed too small and too faint to distinguish 1 from 2 with confidence; the caption on page 297 gives them as R.V¹ and R.V². The label read here as "No." in figure 5 may be "So."; the glyph is indistinct. In figure 8 the label at the right, "R.", appears to run off the edge of the reproduced plate and may be incomplete.]

<<<PAGE pdf=299 file=page_299.txt>>>
[PAGE 299: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXIII

Dimophyes arctica (Chun)
From Moser, 1925, plate 26, figures 5, 1, 2
FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, juvenile, × 20.
FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 14.
FIG. 7.   Polygastric phase, posterior nectophore, × 19.
UG² = bud of nectophore.

Diphyes dispar (Chamisso & Eysenhardt)
From Moser, 1925, plate 8, figure 2

FIG. 3.   Eudoxid phase, to show the succession of gonophores, Go¹-Go⁵
x = vestige of the stem.

Eudoxoides mitra Huxley
From Moser, 1925, plate 13

FIG. 4.   Polygastric phase, × 12.

From Moser, 1925, plate 8

FIG. 5.   Eudoxid phase, × 9.
Vk = ventral ridge; GO² = bud of second gonophore; Ma = manubrium.

Chelophyes appendiculata (Eschscholtz)

FIG. 6.   Polygastric phase, from Villefranche, × 3.

<<<PAGE pdf=300 file=page_300.txt>>>
[PAGE 300: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXIII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 3: Go₅   x   Go₃   Go₄   Go₂   Go₁
Fig. 5: Vk   Go₂   Ma
Fig. 7: Ug₂
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the numerals in the figure lettering are printed as subscripts (Go₅, Go₄, Go₃, Go₂, Go₁, Ug₂), whereas the caption page (page 299) sets the corresponding symbols with superscripts.]

<<<PAGE pdf=301 file=page_301.txt>>>
[PAGE 301: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXIV  Diphyes antarctica Moser

From Moser, 1925, plates 9, 10
Polygastric and eudoxid phases

FIG. 1.   Anterior nectophore, juvenile, × 10.
FIGS. 2, 4.   Schematic transverse sections of anterior and posterior nectophores.
FIG. 3.   Whole animal, × 2.7.
FIG. 5.   Stem-group, × 18.
FIG. 6.   Bract of eudoxid phase.
FIG. 7a.   Lateral view of the cnidosac, × 200.
FIG. 7b.   Ventral view of the same.
FIG. 8.   Ostial view of the posterior nectophore.
FIG. 9.   Whole animal, ventral view, × 2.7.
FIG. 10.   Gonophore, ♀, × 4.
FIG. 11.   Posterior nectophore, × 7.5.
FIG. 12.   Mature eudoxid, × 10.
FIG. 13.   Whole animal, dorsal view, × 2.7.
Go = gonophore; Go² = bud of gonophore; H = hydroecium; Lz = lateral tooth; Sb = nectosac; So = somatocyst; W = deeply coloured cap.

<<<PAGE pdf=302 file=page_302.txt>>>
[PAGE 302: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXIV

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7a, 7b, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 2: Sb   H
Fig. 4: Sb   So
Fig. 5: Go
Fig. 7a: W
Fig. 7b: W
Fig. 8: Lz   Lz
Fig. 12: Go₂
Fig. 13: H
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the numeral in the figure-12 label Go₂ is printed as a subscript, whereas the caption page (page 301) sets it as a superscript, Go².]

<<<PAGE pdf=303 file=page_303.txt>>>
[PAGE 303: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXV

Clausophyes ovata (Keff. & Ehlers)
Figures 1, 4, 5 from Moser, 1925, plate 24, figure 4, plate 25, figures 3, 4
FIG. 1.   Anterior nectophore, × 5.
FIG. 4.   Posterior nectophore, × 9.5.
FIG. 5.   Posterior nectophore, × 4.2.
FIGS. 6-10.   From Kefferstein & Ehlers, 1861, plate 5, figures 2, 3, 1, 4, 5.
FIG. 6.   Eudoxid.
FIG. 7.   Stem group.
FIG. 8.   Whole animal.
FIG. 9.   Stem groups.
FIG. 10.   Stem groups.
g = bract (in K. & E's figure g flags bract in error for gonophore); p = gastrozooid.

Chuniphyes moserae Totton
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 8, figure 9 (as C. multidentata)

FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 2.5.
D' = dorsal ridge; H = hydroecium; So = somatocyst; R.L., R.V. = lateral and ventral ridges.

Chuniphyes sp.
From Moser, 1925, plate 24, figure 3

FIG. 3.   Bract of the eudoxid phase, × 18.

Clausophyes galeata (L. & van R.)
From Bigelow, 1913, plate 6, figure 1 (as C. galatea)

FIG. 11.   Polygastric phase, whole animal.

<<<PAGE pdf=304 file=page_304.txt>>>
[PAGE 304: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXV

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 1: [?1 mm] (beside a bracket-shaped scale mark)
Fig. 2: R. L.   R. V.   D'   [illegible]   [illegible]   [illegible]
Fig. 4: [?1 mm] (beside a bracket-shaped scale mark)
Fig. 5: [?1 mm] (beside a bracket-shaped scale mark)
Fig. 6: p
Fig. 7: p
Fig. 9: g
Fig. 10: g
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: figures 1, 4 and 5 each carry a scale mark drawn as a square bracket with very faint lettering beside it, read here as "1 mm" but not legible with confidence. The bracket is part of the drawn scale mark, not printed text, and is not a transcriber marker. Three small leader labels on figure 2 are printed too faintly and too small to read at 300 dpi.]

<<<PAGE pdf=305 file=page_305.txt>>>
[PAGE 305: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXVI

Sphaeronectes gracilis (Claus)
From Chun, 1885, plate 1, figure 1

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 6.

Ceratocymba leuckarti (Huxley)
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 13, figure 8

FIG. 2.   Eudoxid phase, attached stem-group, × 30.
C.B = bracteal canal; S = gastrozooid; T = tentacle; H.Go = hydroecium of gonophore.

From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 15, figure 4
FIG. 3.   Bract of eudoxid, dorsal view, × 4.

From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 15, figure 3
FIG. 4.   Lateral view of bract, × 4.

From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 13, figure 6
FIG. 5.   Posterior nectophore of specimen shown in figure 7, polygastric phase, × 30.
H = hydroecium; To.l = lateral tooth.

From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 13, figure 5
FIG. 7.   Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 10. So = somatocyst.

Abyla haeckeli L & v. R.
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 13, figures 1, 7

FIG. 6.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, × 9.
FIG. 8.   Anterior nectophore, ventral view, × 9.

Abyla trigona Q & G.
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 13, figures 3, 4

FIG. 9.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, lateral view, × 9.
So = somatocyst.
FIG. 10.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, ventral view, × 9.

<<<PAGE pdf=306 file=page_306.txt>>>
[PAGE 306: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXVI

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 2: C.B.   S.   T.   H.Go.
Fig. 5: H.   To.L.
Fig. 7: So.
Fig. 9: So.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the figure lettering on this plate is printed very faintly. A short run of pale lettering appears in the upper right area of figure 7; it is illegible at 300 dpi.]

<<<PAGE pdf=307 file=page_307.txt>>>
[PAGE 307: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXVII  Ceratocymba sagittata Q. & G.

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 3.7.
FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, anterior nectophore, × 6.6.
FIG. 3.   Polygastric phase, young specimen, × 19.
FIG. 4.   Polygastric phase, posterior nectophore, × 4.2.

<<<PAGE pdf=308 file=page_308.txt>>>
[PAGE 308: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXVII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 3, 1, 4, 2.

No other lettering.
[/PLATE]

<<<PAGE pdf=309 file=page_309.txt>>>
[PAGE 309: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXVIII

Ceratocymba dentata (Bigelow) Figures 1-3
From Totton, 1954, plate 10, figures 1-3

Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 2 to show the long cylindrical nectosac of the posterior nectophore and the obsolescent one of the anterior nectophore. Eudoxid groups can be seen in the hydroecium.

FIG. 1.   View of the right side of the anterior nectophore and the ventro-left side of the posterior nectophore.
FIG. 2.   Anterior nectophore, dorsal side; posterior nectophore, right side.
FIG. 3.   Anterior nectophore, left side, posterior nectophore, ventro-right side.

Abyla bicarinata Moser. Figures 4-7
From Moser, 1925, plate 19, figures 3-6
Polygastric phase.

FIG. 4.   Anterior nectophore, dorsal view, × 5.5.
FIG. 5.   Anterior nectophore, ventral view, × 5.5.
FIG. 6.   Anterior nectophore, oblique view of left side, × 5.5.
FIG. 7.   Anterior nectophore, from above, × 5.5.

<<<PAGE pdf=310 file=page_310.txt>>>
[PAGE 310: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXVIII

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.

No other lettering.
[/PLATE]

<<<PAGE pdf=311 file=page_311.txt>>>
[PAGE 311: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XXXIX  Abyla tottoni Sears

From Totton, 1954, plate 9, figures 1-4

Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 4.

FIG. 1.   Apical view of the anterior nectophore with the large left hydroecial wing in the right background.
FIG. 2.   Anterior nectophore, ventral side; posterior nectophore, right side.
FIG. 3.   Anterior nectophore, dorsal side; posterior nectophore, left side.
FIG. 4.   Ostial view.
Abor = aboral; Cmb = comb; D = dorsal; N.ant = anterior nectophore; Ns = nectosac; Ost = ostium; R.r, R.l = right and left ridge; To.d = dorsal tooth; To.L = lateral tooth; V = ventral; Vel = velum; W.hyd.r, W.hyd.l = right and left hydroecial wing.

<<<PAGE pdf=312 file=page_312.txt>>>
[PAGE 312: unnumbered]

PLATE XXXIX

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 1: R.r.   R.l.   Ns.   W.hyd.l.
Fig. 2: D.   V.   R.r.   To.d.
Fig. 3: Abor.   N.ant.   W.hyd.l.   Cmb.   W.hyd.r.
Fig. 4: R.r.   R.l.   Pl.m.   Ost.   To.d.   Vel.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the label Pl.m. in figure 4 is not explained in the legend on page 311.]

<<<PAGE pdf=313 file=page_313.txt>>>
[PAGE 313: unnumbered]

[RUNNING HEAD] A SYNOPSIS OF THE SIPHONOPHORA

PLATE XL

Abylopsis tetragona Otto
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 14, figure 7; plate 15, figure 2

FIG. 1.   Polygastric phase, posterior nectophore, × 4.
FIG. 3.   Eudoxid phase, × 8.
C.d = dorsal canal; C.l¹, C.l² = radial canals; C.v = ventral canal; x = extra half canal.

Abylopsis eschscholtzi (Huxley)
From Lens & van Riemsdijk, 1908, plate 3, figure 1

FIG. 2.   Polygastric phase, whole animal, × 15.

From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 14, figures 1, 2

FIG. 4.   Anterior nectophore, × 12.
FIG. 6.   Posterior nectophore, × 10.
R.D = dorsal ridge; R.L. = left ridge (sensu Bigelow).

Bassia bassensis (Q. & G.)
From Bigelow, 1911b, plate 12, figure 8

FIG. 5.   Eudoxid phase, × 12.
C.b = bracteal canal; Go.♂ = male gonophore; Go.♀ = female gonophore; S = gastrozooid; So = somatocyst; Te = tentillum.

<<<PAGE pdf=314 file=page_314.txt>>>
[PAGE 314: unnumbered]

PLATE XL

[PLATE]
Figure numbers on the plate, in reading order: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.

Lettering on the individual figures, in reading order:

Fig. 1: C.L.¹   C.L.²   C.D.   C.V.   x.
Fig. 5: So.   S.   C.B.   Tr.   Go.[?♂]   Go.[?♀]
Fig. 6: R.D.   R.L.
[/PLATE]

[NOTE: the two labels at the foot of figure 5 are printed too small to resolve; the legend on page 313 gives the corresponding symbols as Go.♂ and Go.♀, and that is the reading offered here, but the glyphs themselves could equally be read as digits. Figure 5 also carries a short vertical scale bar at its left with no lettering.]
