[PAGE 6: unnumbered]
[NOTE: continuation of the English translation; text occupies the upper two-thirds of the page, the rest is blank.]

somatocyst departs from the pedicular canal above the ostial level and approximately in the middle of the basal facet.

In the same haul (87) another nectophore of a similar type was found, and this has been designated the paratype. It lacks a dorsal ridge; the ventral ridges are shorter than in the holotype. The lateral ridge of this nectophore is found only on the right side, as in the holotype, but it is situated almost in the middle and has an S-shape. The furrows on the nectosac are similar to those of the holotype. The baso-ventral ridge of the basal facet together with the ventral ridge form almost right angles. Thus the basal facet is somewhat less triangular. The somatocyst is long, but with a wider part; its apex also borders on the ventral edge of the nectophore (Fig. Б).

In the example from haul 97, the ventral ridge is very weakly expressed, and the one on the right continues almost to the apex of the nectophore; the left one to its middle. The dorsal side of the nectophore is crumpled, so that the lateral ridge and furrows cannot be seen. The somatocyst extends to a little less than half the height of the nectophore.

Diagnosis of subspecies: With 5 longitudinal, superficial ridges on the nectophore which can undergo reduction to varying degrees, although the lower part of the ventral ridge is always preserved. The lateral surfaces of the nectosac bear two furrows. Hydroecial cavity absent. Basal facet oval or triangular, disposed at a 45° angle to the ostial opening.

The somatocyst extends to approximately half the height of the nectophore. It is attached to the pedicular canal above ostial level. It has a thin pedicel, which transforms smoothly into the distal part, which is vermiform or irregularly spindle-shaped. The top of the somatocyst borders on the ventral side of the nectophore, and its surface is irregular, tuberculate.

In addition to the above description of the nectophores from haul 87, there are two other nectophores of L. campanella: one has the typical shape of L .campanella cossack Totton, 1941, while the other, regrettably, is poorly preserved but appears to be of the same subspecies although the somatocyst appears to have an intermediates shape between it and the new subspecies. The presence and position of the ridges and furrows could not be ascertained, because of the bad state of preservation. The somatocyst is larger than that usually found in L. campanella cossack, and has a digitate process on top (Fig Г). However, the somatocyst is not as long as in the new subspecies, and so the nectophore has been ascribed as an atypical form of L. campanella cossack. In haul 87 there was found, in addition, a single posterior nectophore of L. campanella, but it was not attached to any of the anterior nectophores.

Description: The posterior nectophore was about 3mm high. There is a furrow at the top. There were no ridges on the surface of the nectophore. The ventral wings, limiting the slit of the hydroecium, only in the upper part no more than ¼ of their length) overlap one another and diverge in the lower part. The lamella is short, solid, and convex in the middle. The nectosac has an irregular shape, forms triangular lateral outgrowths in the upper third. It has many grooves on its surface, especially a large furrow on the ventral side. (Fig. Д,Е).

It is similar to the posterior nectophore described by Moser for L. campanella. Stepanjants (1971 - actually 1977) has also described a posterior nectophore, which was conditionally ascribed to L. cossack Totton, 1941. The latter is distinguished from L. campanella by its double-lobed lamellae and the presence of ridges on the surface. If this description is accurate then the posterior nectophore in the present material can be distinguished from that of L. cossack, as described by Stepanjants, and it is related to that of L. campanella.
