[PAGE 5: unnumbered]
[NOTE: an English translation of the article begins here — a modern, digitally typeset typescript appended to the scan of the Russian original, not part of the journal printing. Pages 5-7 of the PDF are this translation.]
[NOTE: the bracketed «[?]» in the first body paragraph is the translator's own query mark, printed on the page; it is not a transcription marker.]

Margulis, R. Ya. 1984

A new subspecies of siphonophore Lensia campanella elongata subsp. nov. (Hydrozoa, Siphonophora).

Vestnik Moskovskogo Universiteta. Ser Biol. 16 No. 4, pp. 26-29

Abstract

A new subspecies from genus Lensia (L. campanella elongata) is described from Atlantic Ocean (34°10'N, 30°11'W). The new subspecies differs from others by the structure of the somatocyst, length of which reaches about 1/2 of the nectophore length and may be vermiform or irregularly fusiform. A posterior nectophore is described too. Probably, this nectophore is L. campanella elongata.

In material from the twelfth cruise of "Akademik Petrovski" (August-November, 1981) to Atlantis Bank and the Atlantic Ocean some anterior nectophores of a siphonophore of the genus Lensia were found. In addition to the detailed structure, the absence of a hydroecial cavity, the position of the oval, basal facet, forming an angle to the ostial plane [?], and the partial reduction of the longitudinal ridges allow these distinctive nectophores to be placed within the species Lensia campanella (Moser, 1925). However, the somatocyst of these nectophores is long, about half the length of the nectophore, and vermiform, which is not characteristic of any of the known subspecies of this species, and, therefore, they areascribed here to a new subspecies.

Lensia campanella elongata Margulis n. subsp. (Fig. А, Б)

Material: "Akademik Petrovski" St.37, 34o10'N, 30o11'W; Series 87, depth 50-0m; Series 97, depth 199-0m; 17-x-1981. Juday net- ocean model. Holotype housed in the collections of the Zoological Institute, Leningrad, no. 1/9900. Paratypes - n. 2/9903 and in the Invertebrate Biology Faculty MGO.

Description: Anterior nectophore length 3.75mm, width 2.25mm (at broadest), having 2 ventral ridges, 1 dorsal and 1 lateral. All ridges are weakly developed. The ventral ridges begin below the apex of the nectophore and continue to the basal margin. For the dorsal ridge, only the basal part is found in the middle of the dorsal surface of the nectophore, the remainder passes onto the left side and is somewhat bent. This ridge also starts below the apex of the nectophore. The lateral ridge occurs only on the right side of the nectophore. It is located close to the dorsal side of the nectophore, beginning below its apex and ending at some distance above the ostium. There are well-expressed vertical furrows on the wall of the nectosac. One lateral furrow is situated close to the ventral side, and stretches from the top of the nectosac to the ostium. This furrow occurs on both the left and right sides of the nectosac. Another lateral furrow, situated close to the dorsal side, is different. On the right side, it is short and almost parallels the lateral ridge of the nectophore. On the left side it is longer, beginning below the apex of the nectosac and ending a little above the ostial margin, almost on the dorsal side.

The top of the nectophore is rounded. The apex of the nectosac is also rounded, although when viewed from the side it appears pointed, and originates from the lateral furrows, which form folds. This is because the lateral grooves starting from the apex form folds.

The basal facet is oval, and is situated at an angle of about 45° to the ostial plane. A hydroecial cavity is absent. The lobes on the dorsal wall of the hydroecium (oral lobes) are small, and the left one has a hooked projection.

The somatocyst extends to about half the length of the nectophore and is vermiform with an uneven surface. From the pedicular canal there arises a thin, smooth pedicel which gives rise to the dilated part. A thin stalk departs from the pedicular canal, smoothly turning into an expanded part. The apex of the somatocyst is obtuse, adjacent to the ventral edge of the nectophore. The
