[PAGE 468]
[RUNNING HEAD] 468 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

Double walls (gymnocyst and cryptocyst) are found also in several Cheilostomata, but there they are formed separately within each zooid, so that the hypostegal coelom remains strictly individual and no common colonial coelom develops. In Cheilostomata, therefore, the doubling of the cystid walls is a mere complication of individual structure and does not affect the degree of integration of the colony. On the other hand, in the two above-mentioned families of Stenolaemata the development of a common colonial covering (gymnocyst) and a common colonial hypostegal coelom is a substantial step towards colonial integration.

Polymorphism is fairly well developed in Stenolaemata colonies. We find there the following classes of zooids: (i) autozooids; (ii) gonozooids; (iii) nanozooids; and (iv) kenozooids. Division into autozooids and gonozooids is primary and general. A few words about the others will suffice.

As already mentioned, the primary individuals (oozooids) of all Stenolaemata have the kenozooid type of structure. Other widespread types of kenozooids in the family Crisiidae are, first, cylindrical rhizozooids, which form root filaments and spreading stolons, and, secondly, spine-like zooids, which terminate lateral branches. In other families there are supporting kenozooids contained in attachment-discs or serving as mechanical elements in erect stalks. In some families, e.g. Lichenoporidae, there are no kenozooids at all, unless one counts oozooids as such.

The capacity to form kenozooids apparently arose independently in Gymnolaemata and in Stenolaemata.

Nanozooids are known with certainty only in some species of the genus Diplosolen (family Diastoporidae) (Fig. 211, B). They are slender tubules, one-third the diameter of autozooids of the same species. The polypide of a nanozooid has normally-developed musculature and a single tentacle, as in the siphonozooids of some Octocorallia (see p. 100); their gut is vestigial, and they have no gonads (F. Borg, 1926). In the colonies nanozooids alternate regularly with autozooids and are present in equal numbers. Their role is unknown. Analogy with the nematophores of hydroids suggests itself (Fig. 37, D).

The primary sex cells of Stenolaemata, both male and female, multiply in the growth zone of the colony, and their offspring enter the polypides formed there. Male sex products can develop in any autozooid, but female sex cells degenerate on entering an ordinary autozooid. Only in certain parts of the colony does an ovum entering a polypide become fertilised and give rise to an embryo. In that case the polypide degenerates, changing into a brown body, and the cystid expands into a gonozooid (oecium). A pregnant female polypide always first reaches a high level of development and usually even begins to feed.

A mature gonozooid is distinguished from an autozooid by its inflated shape and often very large size. In Crisiidae it is moderately inflated and has a regular flask-like shape with a narrow neck (Fig. 211, C). In other families (Fig. 211, B) it is often of irregular shape and considerable size. Within the gonozooid is a feeding syncytium surrounded by a membranous
