[PAGE 488]
[NOTE: no pencil marks or marginalia on this page.]
[RUNNING HEAD] 488 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

Other colonial apparatuses also acquire a centralised structure only in exceptional cases. These include the supporting apparatus of Pennatularia, the female sexual apparatus of Lichenoporidae (Stenolaemata) and the secretory and digestive apparatuses of Siphonophora Disconantae, if we regard the latter formations as belonging to the colony as a whole and not to a single gastrozooid.

On the whole we may say regarding the last two points that the organological differentiation of colonies is often at a high level, and sometimes higher than the organological differentiation of individuals of the same group, which is especially true of coelenterates. This is not surprising when we consider that the level of organological differentiation is to a certain extent a function of body size. On the other hand, the centralisation of functioning and the creation of unified, complexly-differentiated colonial apparatuses advance much more slowly, mainly affecting only the function of internal transport but also extending to some degree to other systems of organs, chiefly in mobile colonies.

4. Regulation of the general structural plan and of the development of colonies, manifested in: (i) creation and subsequent refinement of a law of growth and branching affecting the whole colony, and sometimes (e.g. in Octocorallia) also regulation of the internal structure of the colony; (ii) development of a shape and configuration of the colony characteristic of a given species, expressed in limitation of the growth of the colony in certain directions, as we have seen in the leaf-shaped colonies of Bryozoa; (iii) development of regular colonies, with strictly-determined sequence of formation, position and number of zooids (in some Bryozoa); and finally, (iv) development of regular symmetry in the colony, mostly in mobile forms (Siphonophora, Pennatularia, Cristatella, Pyrosomata, Doliolida) but also occasionally in sessile forms (some Bryozoa, synascidia, sponges, and graptolites).

5. Oligomerisation of monotypic elements in a colony. Decrease in the number of monotypic elements (oligomerisation) is one of the methods and indications of integration of an organic individual (V. Dogiel, 1954). An example is the decrease in the number of bells in colonies of Siphonophora Calycophorida (cf. Fig. 40, C).

6. Complexity in the ontogenesis of a colony (cormogeny). This is manifested chiefly in the development of differences between the various generations of zooids in the colony. Most commonly a number of peculiar features occur in the founder of the colony (oozooid), e.g. in marine Bryozoa (the ancestrula of Gymnolaemata, the primary disc of Stenolaemata), in graptolites (siculozooid), and in some hydroids (e.g. Staurocoryne, Fig. 15). The oozooid of ascidians is distinguished by being incapable of sexual reproduction. In some hydroids (e.g. Stomotheca) and in Siphonophora Siphonantae the oozooid stage drops out of the development altogether, as the larva is transformed directly into an impersonal section of the coenosarc; it is also lacking in Phylactolaemata and some Gymnolaemata, where the larva produces a cystid from which two polypides are budded off
