[PAGE 455]

[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT	455

[NOTE: a single straight vertical pencil line, about 4 cm long, stands in the right-hand margin beside the last three lines of the first paragraph (from "podial colonies of Hydrozoa Athecata" to "(L. Silén, 1950)."). No handwriting accompanies it.]

among hydroids. In other cases buds form not only on the stolons but also on the stems of individuals rising above the substrate, and then branched shoots with terminal zooids and monopodial branching develop (Urnatella, Arthropodaria, etc.). Such colonies remind one of the monopodial colonies of Hydrozoa Athecata. There are evidently no neural links between the separate zooids of the colony, since mechanical contact with a zooid of Pedicellina causes it alone to react (L. Silén, 1950).

The types of Kamptozoa colonies are therefore very similar to the more primitive types of hydroid colonies.

(b) PHORONOIDEA

The first indications of coloniality in the phylum Podaxonia are found in Phoronoidea. After settling on a favourable substrate the young Phoronis gives rise by transverse division (architomy) to a whole community densely populating the object (e.g. a shell valve or a dead oyster). In P. kowalevskii,

[FIGURE] Fig. 207. Incipient coloniality in Phoronoidea.
A—community of North Atlantic Phoronis ovalis formed by 'perforating' architomy; individuals arising: 1—from front half of autotomising maternal individual; 2—from its rear half; 3—newly-formed transverse septum in tube, and beside it newly-formed tube-opening (after Harmer). B—Brazilian Phoronis cf. ovalis, budding: 1—stomach; 2—gut; 3—connecting branch between gut of maternal individual and that of bud. C—temporary colony of six zooids (after E. Marcus).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the caption is set as a block to the left of the figure; the figure itself carries the engraved letters A, B and C and the leader numerals 1, 3, 2 (in A), 2, 1, 3 (in B) and 2, 1.]

found in the Bay of Naples, architomic division takes place in autumn; the incomplete individuals so formed pass the winter in a state of quiescence, and only in spring are individuals of normal structure formed by regeneration of the missing parts; sexual reproduction takes place in summer, i.e. there is an annual life cycle, similar to the annual cycles of true colonial animals. In the architomy of P. ovalis (S. Harmer, 1917) the individual that is created from the front section and regenerates the rear half of the body inherits the front end of the maternal tube and separates it from the part occupied by the rear individual by means of a transverse septum. The rear individual makes a new outlet beside the septum and builds a new outlet tube above it (Fig. 207, A). As the result of a series of such divisions a single system of tubes is formed, consisting of thecae separated by septa,
