[PAGE 464]
[RUNNING HEAD] 464 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

and the process opposed to it (the immovable jaw of the beak) is undeveloped.

In regular colonies avicularia and vibracula are located in strictly-defined places, forming (together with autozooids) their own kind of cormidia, as in Scrupocellariidae. In foliate colonies such as Flustra the avicularia are also located in more or less definite places, most often at the points where rows branch off.

Kenozooids are very diversified, and, apart from negative characteristics such as lack of a polypide, an aperture, etc., their various forms have nothing in common. They include segments of rhizoids and stolons, small cells of the attachment-plate of Retepora, marginal kenozooids of many Flustra, supporting kenozooids of stalks, some spines, etc.

As well as typical kenozooids there are intermediate forms: if the margin of an incrustational colony of Electra pilosa loses contact with the substrate, new buds grow into long curved sacs with undeveloped polypides and apertures—semi-kenozooids, used to search for a substrate. But as soon as a substrate is found they are divided by septa and develop into rows of autozooids; they are merely a temporary modification of autozooids, resulting from a check to their differentiation caused by lack of contact with the substrate (E. Marcus, 1926).

In some Cheilostomata cases of polymorphism affecting only autozooids occur, e.g. division of autozooids into larger (so-called type B autozooids) and smaller (type A) in Steganoporella. In Tripostega (family Hippothoidae, section Ascophora) there are, besides autozooids, dwarf heterozooids lacking sex products but possessing polypides. In Hippothoë hyalina there are asexual feeding individuals and also male and female individuals, the latter with oecia. The sexual zooids have an operculum and a vestigial polypide, which still retains tentacles.

The appearance of specialised sexual individuals, basic and general among hydroids, is therefore only sporadic in Bryozoa and occurs independently in separate groups; individuals specialised as brood pouches occur much more often.

The phenomenon of alternation of polypides is characteristic of all Gymnolaemata: from time to time a polypide dies off while the cystid remains alive and gives rise to a new polypide. The remains of the old polypide enter the gut of the new one as a 'brown body' and are gradually resorbed. In all Gymnolaemata that have a coelomoduct (intertentacular organ), e.g. in Electra, polypides possess it only during sexual reproduction. At the end of that period there is mass replacement of polypides; the newly-formed polypides are incapable of sexual reproduction and have no coelomoduct, and the colony enters on a period of intensified budding. Before the next period of sexual reproduction these asexual polypides in turn die off and are replaced by new sexual polypides possessing coelomoducts (F. Borg, 1947). Since in this case only the polypides are replaced and the cystids remain, we cannot speak of seasonal dimorphism of the zooids of the colony; the above phenomenon may rather be regarded as
