[PAGE 487]
[NOTE: no pencil marks or marginalia on this page. The numeral 1 after 'stimuli.' in the third paragraph is a superscript footnote reference, keyed to the numbered footnote at the foot of the page.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 487

organisation of the circulatory apparatus (see Vol. 2, Chap. VIII) and therefore is capable of considerable advancement. Unfortunately our knowledge of the degree of functional efficiency of the circulatory apparatuses of various coelenterates, Bryozoa, and synascidia is insufficient for precise comparison.

The neural system of colonial animals has been still less studied, but it is certain that a single colonial neural apparatus is far from being universal. Among Octocorallia transmission of stimuli from one zooid to another has been proved for Pennatularia and some Gorgonaria (e.g. Eunicella), and recently also for a number of other forms (G. Horridge, 1956a, b); the transmission takes place mainly through the ectodermal neural system of the solenia described by N. Kassianow (1908). The transmission of stimuli from one zooid to another has been demonstrated also in some Madreporaria. There are neural cells in the coenosarc of hydroids, but their physiological function is not clear. In many Bryozoa that have been studied in this connection the neural plexuses of cystids do not as a rule communicate with each other; only Cristatella has indubitably a common colonial neural plexus. Apparently neural connections between zooids are lacking also in Kamptozoa colonies (L. Silén, 1950).

Formation of a common colonial neural apparatus takes place mainly in mobile and semi-mobile colonies (Siphonophora, Pennatularia, Cristatella), but with the exception of tunicates. In Doliolum the formation of a common colonial neural apparatus is impossible because of the weakness of the organic links between the zooids, and is unnecessary because of the 'monarchical' nature of the colony, in which all locomotor functions are entirely vested in the oozooid. In Pyrosomata also there are no neural connections between the zooids, but co-ordination of their movements is attained by the unique mechanism described above. In no group of colonial Metazoa, however, has the stage of formation of colonial nerve centres been reached, and also there are no common colonial receptors of distant stimuli.1 In any case the example of the neural system shows us that maximum integration of a colony is attained under the influence of the requirements imposed upon it by a mobile mode of life. The high integration of Pyrosoma and Doliolum colonies is further evidence of that fact. Analogy with the first stages of the evolution of multicellular animals suggests itself. L. A. Zenkevich (1944) is certainly correct in asserting that the main stimulus to body integration of Metazoa was a mobile mode of life. Activity is a main factor in biological progress (see Chap. X and Vol. 2, Chap. III). Sluggish activity, even of mobile colonies, is the chief reason for the poor centralisation of their neural apparatus.

[FOOTNOTE] 1 Receptors of distant stimuli (see Vol. 2, Chap. IV) are also rare in the separate zooids of colonial animals, being formed exclusively in mobile forms and mainly at the lower levels of development of coloniality (eyes in salps, eyes and statocysts in members of temporary colonies of budding hydromedusae, various organs in members of linear colonies of worms, etc.). An exception is the highly-integrated colonies of Pyrosomata, the zooids of which also possess eyes.
