[PAGE 454]

[RUNNING HEAD] 454	COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

4. COLONIALITY IN KAMPTOZOA AND PODAXONIA

Among sessile colony-forming animals, Bryozoa, Kamptozoa, and Pterobranchia procure food by means of water currents created by the cilia of the tentacles; ascidians filter water through their gill lattice, the water entering through the mouth and leaving through the cloacal aperture. The first three groups show some analogy to polyps, which also procure food by means of tentacles; and ascidians resemble sponges, which like them filter water through the mass of the body. These apparently superficial similarities in the method of procuring food still have some significance, since sponges also have something in common with ascidians in the method of colony-formation, just as polyps have with 'Bryozoa' in the broad physiognomic sense of that word.

(a) KAMPTOZOA

Among Kamptozoa members of the family Loxosomatidae are single: they are capable of asexual reproduction (budding on the calyx), but with only temporary formation of Hydra-type colonies. Neither in size nor in

[FIGURE] Fig. 206. Colonies of Kamptozoa.
A—Ascopodaria. B—Pedicellina echinata. C—longitudinal section through shoot of colony of Urnatella gracilis. 1—zooid; 2—buds; 3—diaphragms separating sections of stolon from each other and from zooids (from Korschelt and Heider).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the figure itself carries the engraved letters A, B and C and the numerals 1, 2, 3, 2, 3 as leader labels.]

complexity of structure do individuals of Loxosomatidae surpass zooids of colonial families. Other Kamptozoa form permanent colonies: in them buds always arise on the stem, which very often forms stolons.

Stolons here, as in hydroids, are extensions of the stem and usually spread over the substrate, forming a so-called rhizome. In several forms separate individuals are budded off directly on the spreading stolons (Ascopodaria (Fig. 206, A), Myosoma) and in such cases colonies arise similar to those of Leucosolenia among calcareous sponges or of Tubularia
