[PAGE 469]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil marks. In the last paragraph a pencil line underscores 'separate from the' and a second stroke runs along the top of 'colonies of Hydra' and of 'Loxosoma' on the next line, with a small tick in the right-hand margin beside 'or'. Two very small pencil specks stand in the outer left margin, one beside 'the gonozooid, and the larvae emerge' and one beside 'regularly mushroom-shaped'; neither forms a letter or word.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 469

sac; within the syncytium the processes of growth of the primary morula-like embryo, and formation of a large number of secondary embryos from it, take place. Typical polyembryony therefore occurs here. As the larva matures the membranous sac adheres to the terminal membrane of the gonozooid, and the larvae emerge to the exterior through an opening formed there.

In the family Lichenoporidae the membranous sac intrudes into the colonial (hypostegal) coelom, partly filling it; that expansion is due to partial resorption of the wall (cryptocyst) of the gonozooid. The brood pouch of Lichenoporidae is therefore only partly homologous with that of other families: in the latter it is formed from the membranous sac and the cystid of the gonozooid, but in Lichenoporidae from the membranous sac of the gonozooid located in the cavity of the colonial coelom.

On the whole, Lichenopora colonies are highly integrated; they are regularly mushroom-shaped (Fig. 211, E) and give rise to a single viable ovum and a single large central oecium, which occupies the common colonial coelom and produces a large number of larvae by polyembryony. In Lichenopora we have the only instance in the whole animal kingdom of a high degree of colony-integration being attained not by a mobile mode of life but by centralisation of the reproductive function and concentration of it in a single central brood organ.

Possession of well-individualised and greatly-developed female gonozooids and possession of colonial growth zones are, therefore, the most important features in the formation of Stenolaemata colonies, and the combination of these features makes them unique.

5. COLONIES OF PTEROBRANCHIA AND GRAPTOLITES

Among the genera of modern Pterobranchia, Atubaria (so far as is known) does not reproduce asexually or form colonies. Individuals of most species of Cephalodiscus have a short stolon and bud off daughter zooids that separate from the mother; they form only incipient colonies of Hydra or Loxosoma type. The tendency to form such aggregates of individuals joined together is most marked in C. gracilis. In C. sibogae the separate zooids remain in somatic (tissue) connection with each other, forming permanent colonies. Individuals of Cephalodiscus do not live independently in the water (as does Atubaria, which clings by the tail to a plant or a hydroid colony), but live in the cavities of coenoecia of fairly complex structure (Fig. 212, D). The coenoecia are products of secretion by glandular epithelium of the cephalic shields of separate individuals. In different species of Cephalodiscus a coenoecium consists of branched or unbranched, creeping or erect thick stalks with separate or common room for individual zooids; these zooids adhere by the ends of their stalks, but may crawl and move to the exterior by means of their cephalic shields. In some species a colony includes equal numbers of males and females; in others, e.g. in C. nigrescens, there are also hermaphrodites. Sometimes a coenoecium
