[PAGE 463]

[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT	463

[NOTE: three tiny pencil marks stand at the extreme left edge of the page, level with the seventh line of the first paragraph, with the last line of the first paragraph, and with the third line of the second paragraph. Each is cut through by the trimmed edge and only a fragment survives; nothing can be read.]

The cavity of the oecium does not communicate with that of the cystid. In Callopora the ovum, after fertilisation in the coelom of the mother, enters the apical part of the extended polypide, which apposes the orifice of its coelomoduct (intertentacular organ) to the aperture of the oecium and deposits the ovum there. The ovum undergoes cleavage there and a larva develops, which later emerges to the exterior through the aperture of the oecium. The structure of oecia is fairly varied in detail; sometimes they are withdrawn inside the autozooid that bears them, e.g. in Flustra. It is in fact difficult to decide whether an oecium is a simplified individual or a product of differentiation of the cystids of an autozooid. In this connection Bryozoa colonies present us with the same problems that we find in the study of hydroid colonies, where it is very difficult to decide whether a certain formation (blastostyle, dactylozooid, spine) is an individual or an organ.

Avicularia are divided according to their point of origin on the maternal body into terminal, distal-lateral, proximal-lateral, and frontal. Terminal avicularia are more primitive than the others and differ less from autozooids. They occupy independent positions in the colony, reaching its basal side with their basal sides, and they usually participate in budding, giving rise to ordinary autozooids. They are usually smaller than autozooids. Sometimes they possess rudimentary polypides. Flustra, for instance, has terminal avicularia (L. Silén, 1935).

Other types of avicularia lie on the surface of autozooids, are incapable of budding, and are reduced to the role of appendages to the autozooid that bears them. Such, for instance, are the classic avicularia of Bugula or Dendrobaenia (Fig. 210, A). We may discuss different types of avicularia using the family Scrupocellariidae as an example. In a typical case a full cormidium there consists of the following kinds of individuals: (i) an autozooid, bearing all the other individuals; (ii) an oecium; (iii) a lateral-distal avicularium (it is formed as a distal-lateral bud, i.e. it is the first member of a new lateral row that does not develop further); (iv) a lateral-basal vibraculum, budded laterally on the autozooid; such budding is unusual in the formation of autozooids, but occurs when rows of zooids do not touch each other and their side walls are free; the lateral-basal vibraculum also, therefore, is the first member of a new row that does not develop further; (v) a frontal avicularium; budding of autozooids on the dorsal side occurs very rarely, but is found, for instance, in Scruparia chelata (Fig. 210, D), in which the dorsal daughter autozooids are turned with their dorsal sides to the dorsal side of the mother. Accordingly the dorsal avicularia that are homologous with them in location (e.g. in Scrupocellaria scabra) have jaws (opercula) oriented, as it were, in the opposite direction to those of the mother. On the basis of this comparison the frontal avicularia also may be regarded as the first members of rows that do not develop further.

Vibracula are a special class of avicularia and differ in the fact that the movable jaw (operculum) is extended into a long whip-like appendage,
