[PAGE 483]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil annotation. A vertical pencil rule stands in the right-hand margin beside the latter part of paragraph (b), from 'If, however, the whole community is formed' to 'certainly deserves the name of'. Pencil underlining marks 'rudiments of coloniality' in paragraph (b) and 'matter between' in paragraph (c). Three lines of pencil handwriting are written across the blank foot of the page, to the right of the signature mark; the hand is loose and the readings below are uncertain.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 483

organisational and the ecological prerequisites are present, similarity in colony structure may be considerable even in forms whose individuals are very different in other respects (e.g. Hydrozoa Athecata and Kamptozoa). The abundance of such convergences points to the very regular course of development of coloniality in Metazoa.

As we have seen, there are also many surprising analogies in types and methods of colony-formation between Metazoa and Protozoa.

9. CONCLUSIONS ON THE METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT OF DEGREES OF COLONIALITY

Comparing colony-formation in sponges, coelenterates, and Bilateria, we find the formation of colonies progresses in three main ways: (i) by weakening of the individuality of the zooids; (ii) by intensification of the individuality of the colony (cormus); and (iii) by development of cormidia.

(a) WEAKENING OF THE INDIVIDUALITY OF ZOOIDS

The degree of individuality of zooids is determined by the degree of their independence with regard to the higher whole, and the degree of their dominance over their own parts. This problem has many aspects, which we shall take in order.

1. The reciprocal organic connection between the zooids in a colony. It shows the following series of steps:

(a) organic connection is absent: the unity of the higher whole is based only on co-ordination of behaviour, whereas co-ordination of metabolism and structural formation (if such exists) arises only as an indirect result of co-ordination of behaviour; this type of organisation (for instance, a 'community' of Hymenoptera) is not generally regarded as a colony;

(b) union of individuals exists, but only by means of their 'dwellings', which are wholly or partly formed by their secretions or cuticles. By itself, without other signs of integration, union of animals by means of formations secreted by them is not sufficient evidence of coloniality. Thus we cannot regard the attachment of acorn barnacles or oysters as forming a colony. If, however, the whole community is formed by the asexual reproduction of one original individual, as happens with Phoronis ovalis or Cephalodiscus, we may see there the rudiments of coloniality. The tunic in which the zooids of synascidia are embedded ensures more intimate union of them than does the coenoecium of Cephalodiscus, and a community of synascidia certainly deserves the name of 'colony' even when the separate zooids are not connected by either stolons or bloodvessels;

(c) union of zooids takes place by apposition of epithelial placentas (salps, Doliolum); in Doliolum, but not in chains of salps, these placentas are used for intensive exchange of matter between the members of the colony;

33
[NOTE: '33' at the foot is a printer's signature mark, not a folio.]

[HANDWRITTEN] [?However] [?plaques] [illegible]
[HANDWRITTEN] Salps mediate
[HANDWRITTEN] [?behavioural] signals
