[PAGE 472]
[NOTE: in this page's last long paragraph the numerals in the parenthetical labels (b4), (c4), (c3) and (a4) are printed as subscripts; they are written here on the line.]
[RUNNING HEAD] 472 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

Graptolites, usually referred to as the class Graptolithoidea, are fossil colonial animals known from the Cambrian to the Carboniferous. They are often included among hydroids or Bryozoa, but both of these views are based on very general analogies and never seemed convincing. A. Schepotieff (1905) was the first to suggest that graptolites are closely related to Pterobranchia. His arguments, however, were unsuccessful. For instance he wrongly equated the 'virgula' (an outgrowth of the theca of the primary individual of specialised graptolites) to the black stolon of Rhabdopleura. On that account his views found no support for a long time, and only comparatively recently were confirmed by R. Kozlowski (1947, 1948).

The resemblance of graptolites to Pterobranchia is shown primarily in their microstructure: the thecae of Cephalodiscus, the tubes of Rhabdopleura, and the thecae of graptolites are constructed of coalesced fusellar sections (fusella). The shape of the thecal apertures, the shape of the various outgrowths, and their construction from fusella in different species of Cephalodiscus and graptolites often show considerable similarity (Fig. 212). In the structure and development of their colonies graptolites are, however, closest to Rhabdopleura. As R. Kozlowski has demonstrated, the basis of graptolite colony consists of a stolon, usually covered with a thin chitinous cuticle and enclosed, as in Rhabdopleura, within a row of stolothecae; all the zooids of the colony are budded off on the stolon. The stolon is unknown (probably because it had no cuticle) only in the order Graptoloidea. The method of growth and the order of branching vary in different orders of graptolites, and in this respect Palaeozoic graptolites differ no more from Rhabdopleura than they do among their own orders. The Ordovician Rhabdopleuroides expectatus (R. Kozlowski, 1961) brings Rhabdopleuroidea still closer to Palaeozoic graptolites.

The order Dendroidea, which occupies a central position among graptolites, had regular colonies whose growth followed Wiman's law (Fig. 213, A, B). On entering a newly-formed stolotheca the stolon immediately gave off three branches: the middle one was long, reaching the aperture of the stolotheca, and the two lateral ones were short. On one lateral branch there arose a bizooid, which secreted a bitheca (b4) of comparatively small size around itself; on the other branch there apparently arose a new terminal zooid, or stolozooid, which secreted a new stolotheca (c4). The maternal stolozooid was located on the middle branch of the stolon; it arose on its own stalk from the old theca (c3) and, developing into an autozooid, built its own autotheca (a4). In this way each stolotheca contained a branching node that gave rise to the next triad—autotheca, bitheca, and stolotheca. Both the bithecae and the stolothecae were formed alternately to right and left on successive autothecae, and thus the colony maintained approximately rectilinear growth. In contrast to the monopodial shoots of Rhabdopleura, Dendroidea had a sympodial mode of growth. The shoots bifurcated when a second stolotheca, instead of a bitheca, was formed in a triad.

A clear difference between colonies of Dendroidea and of Rhabdopleura
