[PAGE 484]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil marks. In the outer left margin: two small ticks beside 'of Madreporaria (Fig. 46) or the oscula', a dot beside 'others remain permanently connected', and, lower, a short vertical rule beside '(colonies of Octocorallia, Stenolaemata, etc.)' together with two loose strokes at the extreme left edge. Pencil underlining marks '5. Short life of individuals' and runs on under 'replacement' in the following line. None of the marginal marks forms a letter or word.]
[RUNNING HEAD] 484 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

(d) the union of zooids is organic, by means of special organs for that purpose (this is usually combined with union of type (b)). For instance, zooids in Bryozoa colonies are joined by mesoderm and usually also by ectoderm, whereas the endodermal organs of different zooids are always entirely separate;

(e) all the principal body layers of each zooid pass directly into the corresponding layers of the other members of the colony (all colonies of coelenterates);

(f) the zooids are completely fused together, so that only separate organs of them retain independence (e.g. the pharynxes in the meandering colonies of Madreporaria (Fig. 46) or the oscula with adjoining efferent canals in colonies of sponges).

2. Permanence of links between zooids. Besides temporary colonies, which are merely stages in the process of asexual reproduction (Hydra, Loxosoma, Microstomum, etc.), there are permanent colonies from which only members of a certain definite category become separated, while the others remain permanently connected (e.g. colonies of hydroids, from which young medusae separate), or from which no members at all separate (colonies of Octocorallia, Stenolaemata, etc.). If we regard cestode strobilae as cormi we shall find among them all transitions from temporary colonies with early-separating members to fully-permanent colonies from which no members separate.

3. Decrease in size and simplification of structure of zooids as compared with members of related free-living species: Actiniaria-Madreporaria, Phoronoidea-Bryozoa, solitary ascidians-synascidia. From this point of view it is very probable that Hydra, Loxosoma, and Monobryozoon are secondarily-solitary forms, since neither in size nor in organisation do they surpass their colonial relatives in any way.

4. Incompleteness of structure of zooids, occurring when a coenosarc exists, and expressed in the fact that separate zooids lack the parts that are replaced by the coenosarc, e.g. the absence of a foot in polyps and in colonial Kamptozoa. An analogous situation exists in linear colonies even without a coenosarc, e.g. absence of the front end of the body in the proglottides of tapeworms, etc.

5. Short life of individuals as compared with long life of the colony: in all permanent colonies replacement of zooids usually develops through the complete dying-off of some zooids and their subsequent replacement by new ones, or through partial degeneration (e.g. degeneration of polypides in Bryozoa) with subsequent regeneration of the dead parts.

This phenomenon is well marked in hydroids (degeneration of hydranths), in Kamptozoa (shedding of heads), in Bryozoa (formation of brown bodies), in Rhabdopleura, and in synascidia.

6. Polymorphism. The development of several kinds of zooids as the result of division of labour within a common colonial whole is, on the one hand, a manifestation of intensification of colonial individuality, and as such is discussed below. On the other hand, polymorphism is also a
