[PAGE 482]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil marks in the outer left margin: a long vertical rule, hooked at its lower end, spanning the paragraph beginning 'Finally, there are striking analogies' from that first line down to 'zooids). We have seen (Chap. III)', together with three small ticks beside 'Finally', beside 'zooids is very complex' and beside 'carrying sexual individuals'. None forms a letter or word, and there is no underlining on this page.]
[NOTE: the numeral 1 after 'Volvox' in the seventh paragraph is a superscript footnote reference, keyed to the numbered footnote at the foot of the page.]
[RUNNING HEAD] 482 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

The strict biradiate symmetry of Cristatella colonies (Phylactolaemata) shows the role of mobility in the development of regular symmetry in colonies—a linkage we see also in coelenterates and tunicates.

Among Protozoa a number of analogies to the branched colonies of sessile Metazoa are shown by, for example, the colonies of Vorticella (Peritricha) and of some Suctoria.

In their method of procuring food (filtering water through the body) ascidians show some analogy to sponges, and that analogy is well reflected in the structure of their colonies. In both groups incrustational or massive colonies predominate; on the other hand, stolonic colonies of the Leucosolenia (sponge) and Clavellina (ascidian) type and branched colonies of the Sympagella (sponge) and Perophora (ascidian) type are exceptional in both groups. In both groups the immediate components of colonies are often complexes grouped around excurrent orifices—cloacal orifices common to several individuals in ascidians and oscula in sponges. In both groups polymorphism of individuals is absent—totally in sponges and almost totally in ascidians.

Finally, there are striking analogies between planktonic tunicates (especially Doliolum) and siphonophores. The division of labour by the zooids is very complex, especially if one bears in mind the great differences in the whole structure of the zooids. In both cases there are locomotor individuals (bell, oozooid), feeding individuals (gastrozooids), individuals carrying sexual individuals (blastozooids in siphonophores and phorozooids in Doliolum), and sexual individuals (medusoids and gonozooids). We have seen (Chap. III) that in Siphonophora Calycophorida cormidia separate from the colony, carrying with them sexual zooids and living as independent bionts (eudoxiae and ersaeae); the separating phorozooids of Doliolum behave in the same way. The separating and, ultimately, fully-independent gonozooids of Doliolum have their analogues in the medusoids of Disconantae, known under the name of chrysomitra (e.g. in Velella).

The dominant role of the oozooid in Doliolum colonies gives them a 'monarchical' character, like the colonies of Siphonophora Disconantae.

The hollow, monaxonic-heteropolar colonies of Pyrosomata, with a rosette of four zooids at one pole and an orifice at the other, have no analogues among other colonies of Metazoa, but resemble Volvox 1 colonies in all other features. That resemblance also occurs to a surprising extent in a number of other details (e.g. rotary quadriradiate symmetry in the arrangement of zooids at the beginning of colony-formation, etc.).

We thus see that there are many types of colony (cormus) structure common to groups of Metazoa far removed from each other. That community of structure is based both on organisational analogies between comparable groups (e.g. division of the body into head and stalk) and on ecological similarities (e.g. method of procuring food). When both the

[FOOTNOTE] 1 See A. A. Zakhvatkin (1949, 1956) for a review of the structure and development of Volvox colonies.
