[PAGE 456]

[NOTE: the top margin above the running head carries a pencil annotation in a previous reader's hand, running the full width of the page. Its left-hand words are cut through by the trimmed page edge and cannot be read. It appears to be a schematic classification of colony types, the right-hand pair being bracketed together.]

[MARGIN] [HANDWRITTEN] [illegible] / [illegible]    Temporary [?bud] [?colonies]    Permanent { [?monomorphic] [?polymorphic]

[RUNNING HEAD] 456	COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

somewhat similar to the coenoecia of Cephalodiscus but still more primitive; the individuals are connected only by the tubes in which they dwell, i.e. by appropriately-moulded secretions. Finally, the Brazilian P. ovalis (is it identical with the European?) reproduces by budding as well as by transverse division (Fig. 207, B, C). The budding often produces temporary colonies, as in hydroids. These colonies may have up to six heads. Buds are often formed on the ampulla, and more rarely on the anterior, muscular part of the metasoma. The body wall of a bud is formed from the body wall of the mother, and the gut of the bud from the gut of the mother (E. du Bois-Reymond Marcus, 1949). These facts, too, slightly reduce the distance between Phoronoidea and Bryozoa.

(c) BRYOZOA

Bryozoa are a purely colonial class, whose characteristics include numerous features of individual simplification in which they differ from Phoronoidea. The simplification is due to colonial life and the consequent small size of the separate zooids. Only one solitary bryozoan is known, Monobryozoon ambulans, described by A. Remane (1936) from the Amphioxus sands of the shore of the island of Heligoland, but its solitary mode of life is certainly secondary and has resulted from reduction of coloniality, as in Loxosoma or Boreohydra.

We have seen above, both in the structure of zooids and in their adaptations to a sessile mode of life (see Chap. V), a considerable degree of mutual independence among the three main groups of Bryozoa. The development of coloniality also takes individual paths in each of them, and therefore we must discuss them separately.

Phylactolaemata

The order Phylactolaemata, which includes most freshwater Bryozoa, has a number of features more primitive than those of other Bryozoa, the majority of which affect individual structure: colonies of Phylactolaemata have a high degree of fusion of cystids—a sign of high integration. In budding, a polypide is first formed near the maternal polypide, on its oral side (Fig. 208, A). As the young polypide grows there is corresponding growth of the wall of the maternal individual, and to some extent separation of the cystid of the daughter animal from it. The inter-cystid walls are most completely developed in Fredericella, in which they are pierced by pores, as in Stenolaemata.

In all other Phylactolaemata the septa are more or less undeveloped; in Cristatella all that remains of them is mesodermal septae not reaching the basal side of the colony.

On metamorphosis the Phylactolaemata larva produces a cystid, on which two polypides are later budded off simultaneously, lying symmetrically back to back (Fig. 208, C). The stage of a solitary sessile individual has thus dropped out of the ontogenesis.

[NOTE: a small pencil smudge lies over the last three letters of "metamorphosis" in the final paragraph, and a short pencil tick stands above the line just to the right of the heading "Phylactolaemata".]
