[PAGE 485]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil marks in the outer left margin only: a short vertical rule beside 'the influence of the colony, e.g. the bilateral symmetry', a second beside 'depending on their location in the colony.', and a longer one beside the paragraph beginning '8. Dissolution of zooids', running from 'bodies become subject more' to 'with their characteristic separation of ectoderm'. None forms a letter or word, and there is no underlining on this page.]
[NOTE: the numeral 1 after 'Anthozoa' in the third paragraph is a superscript footnote reference, keyed to the numbered footnote at the foot of the page.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 485

consequence of weakening of zooid individuality, the subjection of the morphogenesis of the zooid to factors pertaining to the colonial whole.

One of the most typical manifestations of polymorphism as a suppressor of zooid individuality is the loss by some zooids of the faculty of sexual reproduction. In Rhabdopleura colonies we find sterile zooids together with males and females. In Gymnolaemata all heterozooids have lost the faculty of sexual reproduction, and in the family Hippothoidae so also have some autozooids. In Stenolaemata most autozooids produce male sex products, but only specialised gonozooids produce female sex products. In hydroids the hydranths have totally lost the faculty of sexual reproduction, which is possessed only by the medusoid individuals. In some Octocorallia (Anthomastus, Corallium, Paragorgia) sex products almost always develop in siphonozooids.

Polymorphism is clearly shown in sessile colonies of Hydrozoa, Stenolaemata, Gymnolaemata, many graptolites, and planktonic colonies of Siphonophora and Doliolida. It is less marked in Octocorallia, Phylactolaemata, and Rhabdopleura. It is totally absent in other Anthozoa 1 (except Octocorallia), in Kamptozoa, and in sponges, and almost absent in synascidia. In some cases of polymorphism the suppression of zooid individuality is very obvious, e.g. in the kenozooids of Bryozoa with their extremely simplified organisation.

7. Subjection of the shape of zooids, particularly their symmetry, to the influence of the colony, e.g. the bilateral symmetry of the zooids of Antipatharia (Anthozoa) or of the hydranths of Sertulariidae (Hydrozoa), depending on their location in the colony.

8. Dissolution of zooids resulting from the fact that sections of their bodies become subject more to the co-ordinating influence of the colonial whole than to the influence of the zooids themselves. Siphonantae present a typical example of total dissolution of zooids (see pp. 93-96). Partial dissolution, beginning with the aboral end and ceasing before it reaches the physiologically and morphologically dominant head, is seen in Octocorallia with their characteristic separation of ectoderm from endoderm in the region of the coenosarc and their formation of a system of canals (solenia) from the endoderm of the coenosarc.

Loss of the circular arrangement of tentacles around the pharynx and their replacement by paired longitudinal rows in the meandering colonies of Madreporaria (Fig. 46, A) present another instance of 'dissolution' of individuals in colonies, subjection of their organs to the structural plan not of the individuals but of the colonial whole.

(b) INTENSIFICATION OF THE INDIVIDUALITY OF THE COLONY

Intensification of the individuality of the colony takes many forms.

1. Formation of a coenosarc and its developing role. Formation of a coenosarc is possible when there is a steep physiological gradient (in Child's

[FOOTNOTE] 1 See, however, footnote to page 99, re dimorphism in Madrepora durvillei.
