[PAGE 450]

[HANDWRITTEN] [?rapid prod'n of new individuals by budding]

[RUNNING HEAD] COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

and polychaetes (family Syllidae, order Nereimorpha), in the latter occurring in more complex colonies as well as linear colonies.

The development of coloniality among oligochaetes is parallel to its development in turbellarians: it arose from asexual reproduction by architomy, which occurs in many oligochaetes, and is particularly clearly shown in the family Lumbriculidae. In Naididae and Aeolosomatidae architomy is replaced by paratomy; regeneration of a new head together with new larval segments for the last zooid, and simultaneously of a new anal lobe for the first zooid, takes place before the division of the worm into halves, and thus temporary chains are formed consisting of two, four, or eight zooids. In some cases (e.g. in Chaetogaster, family Naididae) the zooids are all uniform, as in chains of Turbellaria, differing only in age and stage of development; they all grow in length and each of them, on reaching a certain size, forms a new regeneration zone, predetermining the location of later divisions. In other cases (e.g. in Stylaria) only the first zooid divides, so that the youngest daughter zooid is always attached to its rear end, while the oldest daughter forms the rear end of the chain. Among flatworms we find that system in cestode strobilae. Finally, there are intermediate cases in oligochaetes (biserial division of Nais barbata) in which the first daughter, as well as its mother, has the power of division. That method of chain-formation is unknown in flatworms.

Chain-formation in Naididae, as in turbellarians, is always due to a lag of the continual-division process behind the growth of individuals in length and behind the formation of regeneration zones. With the onset of the period of sexual reproduction the formation of new regeneration zones ceases, division continues, and the chains break down altogether into separate individuals, in which only then does the development of the genital apparatus begin. In general, oligochaete chains are purely temporary formations almost without colonial individuality.

In Syllidae also the starting-point of coloniality is usually architomy, here due to epitoky and in many cases replaced by paratomy. In a typical case (Autolytus or Myrianida, Fig. 204, A) chains of zooids are formed similar in structure and origin to those of Stylaria, but differing in marked dimorphism: the first maternal individual is asexual and the daughters sexual. The number of zooids in syllid chains is sometimes large (up to 30 in Myrianida), but here also the chain is a purely temporary aggregation and coloniality remains rudimentary.

Formation of temporary colonies by syllids may take place by budding as well as by division. In that case an anal lobe of a daughter zooid may develop as a bud on segments of the body as well as a growth zone, and then it forms new segments the foremost of these later being reconstructed and giving rise to a head end. In Trypanosyllis budding is concentrated near the rear end of the maternal zooid, and a whole bunch of very short sexual zooids of varying age is formed there, from which the older ones gradually break off and swim away.

In Syllis ramosa (Fig. 204, B), which parasitises the sponge Aulochone
