[PAGE 459]

[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT	459

Among marine Bryozoa, Gymnolaemata colonies are distinguished by extreme diversity of structure, attained partly by polymorphism of the zooids but mainly by diversity in their arrangement. Because of that diversity we must dwell only on the most general features of types of colonial structure, passing over many interesting types.

L. Silén (1944) believes the most primitive type of Gymnolaemata colonies to be Labidostomella colonies, in which a number of shoots rise from the frontal side of the hemispherical ancestrula and form tubular zooids, with a subterminal aperture slightly shifted towards the frontal side; on the other hand, the place of bud-formation is slightly shifted towards the basal side of the cystid (Fig. 209, A). In shape and the relative arrangement of the ancestrula and the other zooids Labidostomella resembles the original type of Stenolaemata colonies (see below). In the suborder Ctenostomata (order Gymnolaemata), in members of the section Carnosa (e.g. Flustrella, Alcyonidium) the zooids retain their tubular shape, straightness, and terminal aperture, but have changed from frontal to lateral budding;¹ for that reason their colonies form thick incrustations of cystids standing parallel to each other. In members of the section Stolonifera (e.g. Farella repens) the ancestrula gives rise by lateral budding to spreading segmented stolons consisting of simplified zooids (kenozooids), from which arise erect feeding zooids possessing terminal apertures.

The primary type of colony in the suborder Cheilostomata is a spreading incrustational colony formed by lateral budding, with the zooids' apertures shifted to the frontal side. In Cheilostomata frontal budding produces specialised zooids almost exclusively: kenozooids, avicularia (see below), etc.

Colonies of Electra catenulata type (Fig. 209, B) are very primitive, with terminal and lateral budding, the only connection being that between the maternal and the daughter zooids. The cystids are separated by simple septa, on which are located rosette-shaped plates pierced by pores. Through these pores uniformity of the internal environment is attained by exchange of matter between the zooids.

A more usual type of continuous, not reticulated, incrustational colony is represented by Electra pilosa. The ancestrula forms three buds, one terminal and two lateral; each lateral bud forms three more, so that the colony soon begins to grow in all directions. Later most of the individuals produce only terminal buds, so that radially-diverging rows develop, on which branches are formed here and there without any order. The rows of growing zooids lie closely side by side, being arranged quincuncially, i.e. the rear half of each zooid always adjoins the side of the front half of its neighbour (Fig. 209, C). The zooids in different rows are separated by double septa, but the cavities of their cystids also communicate with each other by porous plates. Such incrustational colonies have very little

[FOOTNOTE] ¹ In the description of Gymnolaemata colonies 'lateral budding' is the name given to formation of buds on the sides of the cystid of the maternal zooid; 'terminal budding' is formation of buds on the front edge of the cystid, and 'frontal budding' is formation of buds on the frontal side, where the aperture is located.

[HANDWRITTEN] Some degree [?of] internal [?continuity]

[NOTE: that pencil phrase is written in two lines in the blank lower quarter of the page, below the footnote, sloping slightly upward to the right.]

[NOTE: pencil marks by a previous reader elsewhere on the page: a faint underline beneath "(kenozooids)," and a fainter one beneath "from which arise erect feeding zooids possessing terminal apertures."; in the Electra catenulata paragraph, underlines beneath "pores.", beneath "uniformity", beneath "of the internal environment is attained by", and beneath "exchange of matter between the zooids."; and two short curved vertical pencil strokes in the right-hand margin beside those last three lines. Faint underlining also touches "specialised zooids almost exclusively" and "(see below)" in the Cheilostomata paragraph.]
