[PAGE 473]
[NOTE: a single small pencil tick stands in the outer left margin beside 'differences between Dendroidea and modern Pterobranchia almost'; it forms no letter or word.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 473

consisted in possession by the former of bizooids as well as of autozooids and terminal zooids (stolozooids); in some orders of graptolites, however, bizooids were also absent. Moreover, if we agree with Kozlowski that the autothecae were occupied by females and the bithecae by males the differences between Dendroidea and modern Pterobranchia almost vanish, since the latter also have sexual dimorphism, although in them it does not affect the structure of the thecae.

A second difference between the two groups concerns the method of colonial growth; as has been stated, the growth of Rhabdopleura is monopodial and that of Dendroidea sympodial. That, however, is a difference that may occur within the confines of a single order: in Hydrozoa Leptolida we have seen colonies with monopodial growth and terminal zooids as in Rhabdopleura (e.g. Eudendrium, see Fig. 34, A) and also colonies with sympodial growth as in Dendroidea (e.g. Obelia, see Fig. 34, C). Other orders of graptolites (Graptoloidea, Tuboidea, etc.) have their own laws of growth, sometimes differing no less from that of Dendroidea than the latter does from that of Rhabdopleura.

At first glance the most important difference is in the nature of budding: perforation budding in Rhabdopleura and apertural budding in graptolites. The first bud formed on the stalk of a siculozooid, however, the founder of a colony of Dendrograptus, perforates the theca (sicula) of the siculozooid in order to construct its own theca above the hole (Fig. 212, C), as do the zooids of Rhabdopleura. Perforation budding is therefore not unknown in graptolites. It results, in fact, from the very organisation of colonial Pterobranchia: if buds are formed from the stem of the maternal zooid, which is turned towards the bottom of the theca, their most direct path to the exterior lies through a perforation in the thecal wall, which we see happening in Rhabdopleura or in the sicula of graptolites. In the later stages of development of colonies of Dendrograptus or other Dendroidea, because of the limited period of activity of the terminal zooid and the movement of the branching node nearer to the aperture of the stolotheca the buds become able to emerge through the aperture of the stolotheca and therefore perforation budding is replaced by apertural budding. Here also, however, at the places of emergence of two lateral buds the margins of the aperture form indentations—the vestiges of perforation apertures. In one way or another, perforation budding is another unusual phenomenon common to Rhabdopleura and graptolites and unknown in other colonial animals (if we exclude the 'perforation architomy' of Phoronis ovalis, see above).

All the above remarkable similarities, especially the fusellar structure of the thecae, the character of the stolons, and the perforation budding, leave no doubt that graptolites are very close to Pterobranchia and belong to the phylum Hemichorda (Kozlowski). In fact, there is no feature that would enable us to exclude Graptolithoidea from Pterobranchia. If the tubes of Rhabdopleura had been originally found in the Palaeozoic they would certainly have been included among graptolites. It is difficult to
