[PAGE 452]

[RUNNING HEAD] COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

[NOTE: the words "Polypodium hydriforme" below are underlined in pencil by a previous reader, with the underline continuing as a short squiggle beneath the following line.]

ramosa introduce us to a new type of colony—sacciform or branched colonies of tissue parasites.

Colonies of this type are found sporadically in widely differing groups of Bilateria: in cestode larvae, in crustaceans (Cirripedia Rhizocephala), with polyembryony in Chalcididae (Hymenoptera), and in Bryozoa. Among coelenterates a similar type of structure, in similar living conditions, is found in colonies of Polypodium hydriforme (Hydrozoa) from sterlet ovaries (A. Lipin, 1910).

[FIGURE] Fig. 205. Sacciform and branched colonies of tissue parasites.
A—Cysticercus longicollis, larva of Taenia crassiceps (Cyclophyllidea), a cysticercus with a large number of daughter cysts (from Korschelt and Heider). B—larva (staphylocyst) of Hymenolepis cantaniana (Cyclophyllidea) (from Skryabin and Matevosyan).
[/FIGURE]

Among cestodes asexual reproduction occurs in a number of forms at the cysticercus stage. Leading an interstitial mode of life, the pleurocercoids in some forms of Pseudophyllidea acquire the power of growth 'beyond individual limits' and form branched colonies, consisting of flat cords (sparganum), which give rise to several scolexes after they arrive in the gut of the definitive host. In Cyclophyllidea there often occur many-headed larvae of coenurus, echinococcus, or polycercus type, which are essentially sacciform colonies. If the daughter cysts are invaginated outside, instead of inside, the mother cyst, as in Cysticercus longicollis (larva of Taenia crassiceps), a sacciform-branched colony results (Fig. 205, A). A somewhat similar type of sacciform-branched colony of sporocysts is formed by the sporocysts of Leucochloridium paradoxum (family Brachylaimidae) and some other Digenea.

All the colonies of this group are formed by animals that are simplified on account of tissue-parasitism or a similar mode of life; in particular, they have no mouth and obtain food through the integument. In these conditions a branched type of colony denotes more intensive exploitation of the host by the parasite, whereas a sacciform colony denotes slower development and consequently slower metabolism. Generally there are all possible transitions between sacciform and branched types of colonies of tissue parasites, and the difference between them is purely quantitative—in the extent of development of external body surface.
