[PAGE 461]

[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT	461

A very important feature of definite or regular colonies is the existence of a single plan for an entire species, determining the direction of the zooid rows, the branching points, and the relative positions, numbers, and shapes of the zooids composing each internode (S. Harmer, 1923, 1926, etc.). In its constancy and regularity the development of regular colonies resembles such processes as the mosaic cleavage of worms and molluscs. The constancy of composition and plan of these colonies certainly indicates considerable development of the colonial habit, albeit in a single direction. The degree of regularity of colonies attained by Bryozoa is found elsewhere only in some graptolites.

The colonies of the tropical Conescharellinidae—conical, discoid, or calyciform—are very interesting; one of them, developing from an ancestrula that settled on a grain of sand, lies freely on the sea-bottom, like some colonies of Madreporaria; others (Conescharellina, Flabellopora) are suspended by chitinous threads from sea-weeds, like the colonies of many graptolites of the order Graptoloidea. A colony of Conescharellina has fairly-well-developed radial symmetry (L. Silén, 1947).

Polymorphism of zooids also reaches a high level in Gymnolaemata, and in particular in Cheilostomata. The most widely-distributed zooid types among Cheilostomata are the following:

1. Autozooids—normal individuals with a well-developed polypide and normally-developed aperture and operculum, usually capable of forming sex products. All other zooids, which have partly or wholly lost the functions of feeding and sexual reproduction, are combined under the name of heterozooids. Apart from these negative characteristics, however, the different classes of heterozooids have nothing in common. They include the following:

2. Avicularia (Fig. 210, A, B), with a greatly-reduced polypide and a hypertrophied operculum converted into a grasping organ; without sex organs. Vibracula are a variant of avicularia.

3. Kenozooids, without any trace of polypide, aperture, or operculum, or (with a few exceptions) musculature (Fig. 210, D). A kenozooid is an individual consisting of a single cystid having purely mechanical (supporting, attaching, defensive, etc.) functions in the colony. Often spines on the frontal side of zooids are regarded not as simple cuticular outgrowths but as kenozooids.

4. Oecia or ovicelli. As a rule, each Cheilostomata zooid capable of reproduction bears an oecium at its upper edge, above the aperture. A typical oecium consists of two parts, external and internal (Fig. 210, A, C). The external part is formed on the distal-frontal edge of the cystid of an autozooid in the form of two processes, which grow together into a double-walled disc. It grows, bends, and forms a helmet-shaped vesicle; its external wall is covered with a calcareous cuticle, and its internal wall is membranous; the vesicle has an aperture opening to the exterior. The internal part of the oecium is a thin-walled invagination of the wall of the cystid opening into the helmet cavity; it possesses a retractor muscle.
