[PAGE 453]

[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT	453

[NOTE: pencil marks by a previous reader: a short underline beneath the word "flies" at the start of the second line of the second paragraph, and, in the last paragraph, a wavering pencil underline running beneath the second half of the first line (from about "for development of colonies is the" to the end of the line, ending in a small upward tick) and beneath the whole of the following line, its left end dipping under the first words of the line after.]

Some larvae of Cyclophyllidea form true branched colonies. The young larva (staphylocyst) of Hymenolepis scalaris (a parasite of rodents) forms during its growth a system of branching stolons that penetrate the tissues of the intermediate host (a myriapod); several stems arise from the stolons, bearing cysticercoid heads (K. Skryabin and E. Matevosyan, 1945) (Fig. 205, B). The stolons represent the coenosarc of the colony; both stolons and stems are products of the rear section of the larva, the tail (cercomere). The rough resemblance between such colonies and some hydroid colonies arises from the similar outline of the original solitary forms. This similar outline consists in division of the body into a differentiated, physiologically and morpho-physiologically dominant head and a slightly differentiated aboral or caudal end. Such division is a necessary prerequisite for the development of true stolons and of the type of colony structure associated with them.

The formation of 'colonies' of rhizocephalic crustaceans and chalcid flies provides exceptional instances of asexual reproduction among arthropods, which as a rule are incapable even of regeneration of anything more than appendages. It is true that in the case of chalcid flies (Chalcididae, Proctotrypidae) we are dealing with polyembryony, which occurs even among mammals. In polyembryony the possibility of asexual reproduction of individuals and of colony-formation is evidently due to the more extensive potentialities of cells in the early stages of development at which these processes take place.

We cannot include the asexual reproduction of Rhizocephala under the heading of polyembryony, as it occurs at a much later stage of the life cycle, during the metamorphosis of the cypris-like larva. The possibility of asexual reproduction arises there because of great simplification in the organisation of the parasite and an unusual method of metamorphosis. As a result of metamorphosis a membrane develops from the larva, covering the gut of the host and usually giving rise to a single parasite, but sometimes (Peltogaster socialis) not one but several nodules form on the membrane, each of which develops into a separate animal. In another Rhizocephala species—Thompsonia—the same multiple formation of individuals takes place as in P. socialis, but all the individuals remain united by means of a single root system: a colony thus arises, consisting of sacciform individuals joined together by a system of stolons.

Typical polyembryony occurs in Bryozoa of the order Stenolaemata. The ova of these develop within a brood chamber in the trophoblast, in conditions very like those of tissue parasitism. A morula-like primary embryo is formed by cell-division and later expands into an irregularly-lobate, branched colony, which gradually gives off small rounded buds until finally the whole colony is broken up into a large number of such secondary embryos. Later each of these develops into a single larva.

In all these cases the ecological basis for development of colonies is the need for fuller utilisation of the host, which is satisfied in different ways in different parasites, e.g. by paedogenetic reproduction of digenetic trematodes within molluscs.
