[PAGE 490]
[RUNNING HEAD] 490	COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

the function to be fulfilled, cormidia are either specialised or generalised; the latter are cormidia in the narrow sense of the word.

A specialised cormidium is a polyzoic organ fulfilling one special function; an example is the corbula of Aglaophenia and other kinds of proliferous shoots of Thecaphora.

Generalised cormidia, or cormidia in the narrow sense of the word, are assemblages of variously-differentiated zooids, which together partly fulfil most of the vital functions of the colony and therefore are 'colonies within colonies'. They include the cormidia of Hydrocorallia (Leptolida Athecata) and of Siphonophora Siphonantae, assemblages of autozooids, oecia, and various avicularia in Scrupocellariidae and some other Cheilostomata, etc.

A certain analogy to true generalised cormidia is presented by groupings of identical zooids, resembling one another in the arrangement of their components and recurring frequently in a colony. These include the 'cormidia' of Botryllidae and other synascidia (in the literature on ascidians called 'systems' or 'coenobia'), the petals of Pennatularia, the branches in pinnate colonies of hydroids or Octocorallia, the shoots or internodes in 'regular' Bryozoa colonies, etc.

The individuality of cormidia is generally subordinate, and they remain as secondary structural units within the colony. In only two cases do we see the emancipation of cormidia that separate from the colony and become independent bionts, in Siphonophora Calycophorida and in Doliolida. It is a curious fact that in each case we have free-swimming, planktonic colonies.

On the whole the formation of cormidia is of relatively secondary importance in the development of coloniality in Metazoa. The dual process of weakening of zooid individuality and strengthening of cormus individuality is of first importance. How far does that process go? The great majority of Metazoa cormi known to us do not pass beyond the upper limits of colonial organisation, do not cease to be colonies, do not become individuals of a higher order. The upper limits of coloniality are approached to a certain extent only by Siphonophora and (if we accept van Beneden's theory) by tapeworms.

[NOTE: lower half of the page is blank.]
