[PAGE 476]
[RUNNING HEAD] 476 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

Each cormidium is encircled by an annular vessel with which two vessels from each zooid communicate (being extensions of the subendostylic and subintestinal sinuses, see Vol. 2, Chap. VIII); each of these vessels plays the roles of afferent and efferent vessel alternately, depending on the direction of the heart's action. The vascular systems of the separate cormidia maintain connection with each other, and thus a vascular system common to the whole colony develops.

In colonies of Botryllus each individual arises through atrial budding and remains united to the maternal zooid for a long time, if not for life, and united also through it to the other members of the colony by means of slender stalks. In most synascidia that connection is absent and the zooids are connected only by the common tunic in which they are embedded. Many forms, e.g. in Polyclinidae, also lack a common vascular apparatus.

In several synascidia, therefore, the organic connection between individuals that is usually regarded as characteristic of a true colony is restricted to community in the tunic, which is secreted by the epidermis: something intermediate between cuticle and secretion, but inhabited by cells and often traversed by vessels (see Vol. 2, Chap. II). The separate individuals—at least young buds—may migrate within the mass of the tunic. Their relationships are unique, especially if one remembers appendicularians, which secrete a similar massive tunic and separate from it by processes similar to moulting, and live in its canals as in thecae (Vol. 2, Fig. 17). Thence it is only a short step to the coenoecia of Cephalodiscus, also formed of epidermal secretions, in the canals of which these animals live. Of course the coenoecia of Cephalodiscus may also be compared to the tubes of annelids and other such dwellings; but the relationship of Cephalodiscus to tunicates enables us to ask whether the composition of its coenoecium is a distant prototype of their tunics, and its collective life in family coenoecia a prototype of the colonial habit of most tunicates.

Returning to ascidians, we must point out that coloniality arises independently in a number of groups in this class; that together with highly-colonial forms, in which budding begins even in the larval stage, there are many solitary forms; that the effect of coloniality on separate zooids is shown mainly in decrease in size and in some insignificant modifications and simplifications of organisation. Polymorphism is rudimentary and is shown, first, in the sterility of some individuals (usually oozooids) and, secondly, in the presence of undeveloped buds that store reserve matter and hibernate. In ascidian colonies integration is very slight, and often the individuality of cormidia is much more evident. Only rarely do massive colonies of ascidians assume a more-or-less-regular, indefinitely-multiradiate form (e.g. Colella), as happens in sponges.

7. MOBILE COLONIES OF THALIACEA

These include Pyrosomata (or Luciae), Salpae (or Desmomyaria), and Doliolida (or Cyclomyaria). Pyrosomata form colonies that are similar in
