[PAGE 474]
[RUNNING HEAD] 474 COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

offer any objection to the inclusion of graptolites and Pterobranchia in a single class.

Graptolites are a large group, and their colonies are very diversified. Among primitive forms standing at a level of coloniality scarcely higher than that of Rhabdopleura, there are many with more highly-developed polymorphism of individuals (possessing bizooids) and regularity of colonies. Besides the creeping and incrustational colonies of Stolonoidea, Camaroidea, and a number of Tuboidea, there were dendritic colonies growing on hard substrates (Dendroidea, etc.), colonies suspended by filaments (nemata) from sea-weeds (many Graptoloidea), and planktonic swimming colonies. Some of the latter, e.g. Diplograptus, were so complex and integrated that they were formerly compared to siphonophore colonies.

6. COLONIES OF ASCIDIANS

Among ascidians we find, besides solitary forms, two kinds of colonies that to a certain extent resemble Pterobranchia colonies: colonies with creeping (or erect) stolons, and others with semi-independent zooids enclosed in a common tunic. The first type (Fig. 214, C) includes Clavellina colonies constructed like those of Leucosolenia (Spongia Calcarea), of Tubularia (Leptolida Athecata), and of Ascopodaria (Kamptozoa), and Perophora colonies (Fig. 214, D) of branching (monopodial) type, which present the same kind of striking exceptions among ascidians as the branched colonies of Sympagella do among sponges.

Incrustational or massive colonies with zooids embedded in a common mantle-jelly are much more characteristic of ascidians. Budding takes place by very diverse and sometimes very complex methods (e.g. that of Didemnidae, P. Brien and P. Breede, 1948); but the bud always separates within the jelly and does not remain where it is formed, but moves to its final location through the mass of the tunic.

In some ascidians the bud finally breaks out to the surface, to which its oral and cloacal orifices also open, independently of the similar orifices of other individuals (e.g. Distoma). In other cases only the mouth opens directly to the exterior, while the cloacal orifice opens into a cloaca common to several zooids (Fig. 214, A, E), either directly (e.g. in Botryllidae) or through efferent canals that are sometimes fairly long; the buds, ceasing to be arranged around the common cloaca, are pushed out of the circle and, opening independently to the surface, give rise to a new common cloaca and a new circle of zooids. In this way cormidia, consisting of a circle of zooids grouped around a common cloaca, develop in colonies of synascidia. Sometimes these cormidia attain a high level of integration, e.g. in Botryllidae, where the order of formation, movement, and arrangement of members of the cormidium is remarkably complex and regular. Integration both of the whole colony and of the separate cormidia of Botryllus is intensified because of the presence and regularity of their colonial vascular system.
