[PAGE 489]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT

at the same time. In Pyrosomata the oozooid is quite sterile sexually; ts first four vegetative offspring have only testes, whercas all the subsequent zooids are hermaphrodites. At the beginning of colony-formation in some groups of graptolites and Pennatularia, zooids appear of types (bizooids, siphonozooids) that do not recur in the further development of the colony. In the most complex colonies of Octocorallia, Siphonophora, Bryozoa, graptolites, and Doliolida the development of the colony (cormogeny) is a most complex process, during which different types of zooids succeed one another in a definite order, various organs common to the whole colony gradually appear, and the laws of budding and growth of the colony undergo successive changes.

[NOTE: the second line of the page is printed "ts first four vegetative offspring" — the initial "i" of "its" is absent from the page. "whercas" on the same line is printed with a "c" where "whereas" would have "e".]

7. Successive extension of coloniality through phases of the life cycle. In view of the fact that all colonial animals reproduce sexually as well as asexually, their life cycles also contain a solitary phase. Only at a definite stage of development does the solitary animal begin asexual reproduction and give rise to a colony. In comparing closely-related forms we sometimes find that in one of them asexual reproduction begins at an earlier stage than in others, and thus coloniality affects a larger part of the life cycle. There are examples of this among Hydrozoa—Siphonophora Siphonantae as compared with Disconantae; among Bryozoa—Phylactolaemata and some Gymnolaemata as compared with Stenolaemata and the great majority of Gymnolaemata; and, we may suppose, Diplosoma as compared with the majority of other synascidia (W. Salensky, 1894).

8. The capacity of colonies for reproduction and regeneration. The capacity of colonies to reproduce and give rise directly to new colonies is apparently not very rare. Cristatella colonies, on increasing in length beyond certain limits, divide transversely and give rise to new colonies. The 'colonies' of the Rotatoria Conochilus divide in the same way (A. Kolisko, 1939). Among Bryozoa, the fruticose colonies of Crisiidae (Stenolaemata) produce stolons on which secondary discs may develop, forming rhizoids like a true oozooid and, like it, giving rise to a new fruticose colony. Such reproduction of colonies by stolonic budding also occurs in other Bryozoa (some Cheilostomata); similar examples may be found among coelenterates.

[NOTE: a thin pencil vertical line stands in the left margin beside the lines "Among Bryozoa … giving rise to a new fruticose colony"; it carries no text.]

We may speak of regeneration of colonies in cases where the colony has a regular shape. This phenomenon has been studied by P. G. Svetlov (1935) in Cristatella, but probably could be observed in a number of other colonial animals.

(c) DEVELOPMENT OF CORMIDIA

Cormidia, 'colonies within colonies', often develop as a complication of colonial structure. Their existence may be regarded as a step in the development of coloniality, although it is only partly a manifestation of the strengthening of basic colonial individuality.

Cormidia are groupings of individuals regularly recurring within a cormus, united for joint fulfilment of a certain function. Depending on
