[PAGE 481]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil marks in the outer left margin only: small ticks beside 'many others.', beside 'Kamptozoa and Rhabdopleura stand at the same level' and the line below it, a short vertical rule beside 'Even in Bryozoa, however, there is often a tendency to form branched / colonies that externally resemble', and a further short vertical rule near the foot of the page below the last paragraph. None forms a letter or word, and there is no underlining on this page.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 481

when development is slow, but with more intensive metabolism and rapid growth filamentous or branched colonies develop. An analogue of colonies of this type among coelenterates is Polypodium hydriforme (an endoparasite of the sterlet), and among Protozoa, Myxosporidia (Neosporidia) and many others.

Among sessile colonial Bilateria, Bryozoa, Kamptozoa, and Pterobranchia show a distant resemblance to polyps in their food-procuring organs. The types of colony-formation in these classes also show some points of resemblance to types of polyp colonies. That resemblance is most striking in Kamptozoa and Rhabdopleura, which resemble hydroids especially in the external division of the body: in these cases both the morphological and the ecological prerequisites are similar, and so are the colony types. With regard to development of coloniality, however, both Kamptozoa and Rhabdopleura stand at the same level as only the most primitive hydroids. As for the relatives of Pterobranchia, graptolites, the external resemblance of their colonies to those of hydroids is so close that for a long time they were classified as Hydrozoa.

Bryozoa differ from hydroids in not being differentiated into a head and a stalk. Therefore their colony-formation principles differ from those of hydroids, these principles varying greatly in different orders of Bryozoa. Even in Bryozoa, however, there is often a tendency to form branched colonies that externally resemble the most usual types of branched colonies of hydroids—a feature evidently associated with the procurement of food by means of tentacles.

Polymorphism in Bryozoa, as in hydroids, begins with differentiation into sexual and asexual individuals, but in Bryozoa specialised brooding individuals appear more often than actual gonozooids. In Stenolaemata and Gymnolaemata the reduced zooids that perform various mechanical functions compensate for their lack of a coenosarc. Finally, the existence of unique types of zooids—nanozooids, avicularia, and vibracula—is a manifestation of a very high type of polymorphism, reminiscent of the most polymorphic hydroid colonies.

The colonial brood pouches of Lichenoporidae (Stenolaemata) show some analogy to the corbulae of Aglaophenia (Leptolida Thecaphora) and other polyzoic brooding organs of hydroids. The typical assemblages of polymorphic zooids of Bugula or Retepora (Gymnolaemata) have their formal parallel in the cormidia of Millepora (Leptolida Athecata). In other words, all the principal directions of development of colonial individuality found in sessile hydroids occur also in Bryozoa. The extreme types of colonial integration around a central oecium found in Stenolaemata have no analogues among hydroids, and are one of the peaks in development of colonial individuality not attained by the latter.

In their fusion of cystids and in their polypides belonging to a common colonial cystid some Phylactolaemata rather resemble Octocorallia, with their dissociation between ectoderm and endodermal canals in the coenosarc and with their zooids budding off from the common colonial coenosarc.
