[PAGE 4: unnumbered]

Chapter XI	COLONIES OF BILATERIA AND
	GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF
	DEVELOPMENT OF THE
	COLONIAL HABIT IN
	MULTICELLULAR
	ANIMALS

[NOTE: faint bleed-through of body text from the facing/reverse leaf is visible near the top of the page; it is not printed on this leaf and is not transcribed. Several phrases in the body text below are underlined in pencil by a previous reader: "growth beyond the limits of the individual is the rule in them rather than the exception, and therefore"; "the biont is as a rule an individual and not a colony. Nevertheless very many of the lower Bilateria still possess the faculty of"; and "are always temporary" continuing to "formations".]

1. PRELIMINARY REMARKS

With the slight development of individual integration in sponges and Cnidaria, growth beyond the limits of the individual is the rule in them rather than the exception, and therefore asexual reproduction and the formation of colonies are extremely widespread. Bilateria in general stand at a higher level of integration, and among them the biont is as a rule an individual and not a colony. Nevertheless very many of the lower Bilateria still possess the faculty of asexual reproduction, and sometimes also of colony formation. In them coloniality may take very complex forms. In this chapter we shall first survey the chief types of colonies of Bilateria, and then by comparing them with sponge and coelenterate colonies we shall try to determine the chief features of the development of coloniality among all multicellular animals.

All cases of coloniality among Bilateria may be divided, according to the general appearance and nature of the colonies, into five physiognomic types: (i) linear colonies of worms; (ii) sacciform and reticular colonies of tissue parasites; (iii) branching colonies of sessile animals; (iv) ascidian colonies; and (v) free-swimming colonies of salps and Doliolida (W. Beklemishev, 1950).

2. LINEAR COLONIES

Colonies of linear type are characteristic of several flatworms and annelids. They partly resemble the strobilae of coelenterates, and also show some analogy to the chains of the parasitic infusorians, Anoplophryidae. Such colonies are always temporary, and comparatively rarely lead to complex formations. Colonies of linear type are found in no animals at a higher organisational level than the most homonomous of annelids.

In Chapter VI we have discussed cases of formation of linear colonies (chains or strobilae) in turbellarians, and hypotheses about the strobilar nature of tapeworms and annelids. Independently of solution of the problem of the origin of the segmented body of annelids, we can certainly observe among these animals formation of linear colonies whose components are not segments but multisegmented annelid individuals. Such colonies are found among oligochaetes (families Aeolosomatidae, Naididae)
