[PAGE 477]
[NOTE: previous reader's pencil annotation. A long vertical pencil rule runs down the outer left margin beside the third paragraph, from 'also in the co-ordination of its movements' to 'to it.'; pencil underlining marks 'transmits the stimulus' and 'marginal zooids to the diaphragm,' and runs on under 'and muscle' at the start of the next line. In the right-hand margin, level with 'bringing them into motion' and the line below it, stand two pencil question marks; a few tiny pencil specks lie below them.]
[RUNNING HEAD] DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLONIAL HABIT 477

principle to ascidian colonies. Separate individuals arising by budding are united only by a common tunic, and each bud takes its own place by migrating through the mass of the tunic. In most species (Pyrosomata Ambulata, G. Neumann, 1913) the buds travel by means of phorocytes. In some species the buds remain at the place of formation, being united to the maternal individual by stolons for a long time and dispersing only to the extent that the stolons grow within the mass of the tunic (Pyrosomata Fixata, G. Neumann, 1913; genus Propyrosoma, O. Ivanova-Kazas, 1961).

In Pyrosomata colonies all the zooids are uniform; only the primary founder (oozooid) is infertile and the first four of its offspring form only spermatozoa, whereas the rest are hermaphrodites. The chief difference from colonies of sessile ascidians is in the strict regularity of the colony, which has the shape of a hollow cylinder, open at one end and roofed over at the other (Fig. 215, A). The free edge possesses a movable diaphragm; there the youngest individuals are located, through transportation of buds by phorocytes, and there the growth of the colony is concentrated.

Apart from the general regularity of the colony, its integration is shown also in the co-ordination of its movements, which is achieved in a unique way in the absence of muscular, vascular, or neural links between individuals; mechanical fibres of the tunic extend from one zooid to another and are attached to the ends of the arcuate cloacal muscle in the body of each, bringing them into motion.
[HANDWRITTEN] ? ?
By means of the fibres of the tunic, contraction of the muscles of one zooid pulls another zooid and transmits the stimulus to it. Pallial bloodvessels run from the marginal zooids to the diaphragm, and muscle fibres by which the diaphragm is moved develop in the walls of these vessels. In zooids that have lost connection with the margin of the colony these vessels are reduced. All the zooids are independent of one another with regard to feeding and reproduction.

In salps and doliolids the development of colonies is associated with alternation of generations.

In salps (Desmomyaria) the asexual oozooid is provided with a stolon, from which a chain of sexual individuals develops. At first the members of the chain are organically united by the stolon, but mature sections of the chain that break away from the stolon consist of zooids that have lost the stolonic connection and are joined together only by mutually-adherent attachment papillae. They swim as a 'colonial' generation, but actually their coloniality is scarcely evident. Both anatomically and physiologically the connection between the zooids is very slight. It is rather a 'solitary' salp with its budding stolon, which represents a colony, but it is a colony of incipient type, such as Myrianida (family Syllidae, order Nereimorpha) or the strobilae of Gonactinia (Fig. 31). The structure of colonies of the sessile salps Octacnemidae is not well enough known to merit discussion.

The colonies of Doliolum (Cyclomyaria)—one of the most fantastic of marine creatures—are of exceptional interest.

On its ventral side the oozooid of Doliolum has a filamentous stolon, which at an early stage begins to bud off minute 'pre-buds'. At the base
