[PAGE 460]

[RUNNING HEAD] 460	COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF INVERTEBRATES

regularity of structure; the place of origin of branches and their course depend largely on the configuration of the substrate.

In those Bryozoa in which the disc rises above the substrate the colony becomes plate-shaped, fan-shaped, or lobate, e.g. in Flustra. In these colonies the courses of and the intervals between the rows are just as irregular as in spreading types, but at the edges the method of formation of the colony as a whole takes effect, restricting the growth of the colony in certain directions and determining the shape of its disc.

[FIGURE] Fig. 209. Structure of Gymnolaemata colonies.
A—Labidostomella gisleni: left—branch of colony, arising together with other branches from the ancestrula, view from basal side; right-lateral view of branch; areae are visible (after Silén). B—Electra catenulata, part of colony. C—Electra pilosa, diagram of arrangement of zooids in colony. D—Menipea ternata, part of colony, example of a regular branched colony of Cheilostomata. 1—area; 2—aperture; 3—fornix, a plate raised above the area and serving to protect it; 4—lateral distal avicularia; 5—joint between internodes; 6—spines—outgrowths of cuticle of cystids (from Beklemishev).
[/FIGURE]

[NOTE: the drawings carry the engraved part letters A, B, C and D and, in D, the leader numerals 4, 1, 6, 2, 3, 5, 1, 4 and 6.]

A third type comprises branched regular colonies such as Menipea (Fig. 209, D) or Scrupocellaria. All their branches usually consist of several rows of zooids with their apertures turned in the same direction, to the frontal side of the colony. Such branched colonies of Cheilostomata are doubtless derived from plate-like colonies. They are, in fact, discoid colonies with a much-dissected, and therefore branched, disc. The colonies rising above the substrate, each of whose branches consists of a single row of zooids, very often are merely the extreme members of series of gradually-narrowing lobes of discoid colonies.
