[PAGE 12]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page; every "[" in this file is my
marker.]

[RUNNING HEAD] M.K. Mańko, et al.
[RUNNING HEAD] Progress in Oceanography 189 (2020) 102414

release of medusae by the polyps (Boero et al., 2016), or because of an unequal sampling effort between the two shelf zones. The absence of B. superciliaris at the shelf stations of both transects may reflect more Atlantic-like water conditions, as this species is typically considered to be associated with cold water (Schuchert, 2007) or even to be indicative of Arctic waters (Mańko et al., 2015). A plausible explanation of this unequal representation of this Arctic species could also be based on the vulnerability of the medusae stage of B. superciliaris to higher temperature, or to the fact that medusae release in this species occurs only in waters 5–7 °C warm, as shown in the experimental work by Werner (1961).

In the open ocean zone, a more diverse GZ community was found in the deepest depth stratum (Fig. 4). The vertical distribution of the calycophoran siphonophores and Trachymedusae were inversely proportional, with the former being more abundant in the waters deeper than 200 m, while the later, although also present in the deep waters, dominated in the shallow waters. The non-Aglantha Trachymedusae, except for the Trachymedusae indet., were found exclusively in the 600–1000 m depth stratum (Fig. 4). Comparing our vertical distribution data with similar work from other regions of the Arctic Ocean is hampered by the differences in the encountered diversity of the GZ community, as ranges of vertical distribution are species-specific. Studies in the Canadian Arctic and central Arctic Ocean have found that medusae often dominate the deep ocean diversity of GZ (e.g., Kosobokova and Hopcroft, 2010; Raskoff et al., 2010), or prevail just below the non-mixed layer (25 m; Raskoff et al., 2005). These studies have also documented that a bimodal numerical dominance of siphonophores occurs as a result of varying abundances of physonects and calycophorans, with the former peaking in shallower waters and the latter closer to the bottom (Raskoff et al., 2005, 2010). Our data did not support such a trend, as we identified only a small number of physonects, which in our case dominated the deepest sampling layer of the open ocean, and some were present in the surface waters above the shelf. Raskoff et al. (2010) commented that deep-sea ridges might be responsible for aggregating siphonophores, but no such topographic features were identifiable in our study area. Ctenophores are expected to constitute most of the epipelagic community of the Arctic gelatinous zooplankton (Raskoff et al., 2005; Purcell et al., 2010). With increasing depth, the contribution of the gelatinous zooplankton to the overall zooplankton abundance is also predicted to increase (Kosobokova and Hopcroft, 2010), which was demonstrated even for the Fram Strait (Gluchowska et al., 2017b). Our data agree with the expectations provided above of the high abundance of the epipelagic ctenophores (Fig. 4); however, contrary to the referenced studies from the Canadian Arctic (Raskoff et al., 2005; Purcell et al., 2010), the epipelagic zone of the open ocean region of the Eurasian Basin seems to be dominated by calycophoran siphonophores. This observation has to be treated cautiously, as the sampling and fixing methods employed in our study may have led to the sever underestimation of the ctenophore abundance.

The number of GZ taxa documented in this study is consistent with that provided by similar research endeavours for corresponding regions and depths of the European Arctic (e.g., Zelickman, 1972; Licandro et al., 2015; Mańko et al., 2015). Minor differences in the GZ diversity could have resulted either from pronounced seasonality of some GZ taxa (Hosia and Båmstedt, 2007) or from the location/depth of sample collection. For example, when more shelf area was covered (e.g., in the eastern Barents Sea as reported in Mańko et al., 2015), more meroplanktonic and boreal taxa were found that were not detected here, such as Plotocnide borealis or Euphysa flammea. Likewise, when the deeper basins of the central Arctic Ocean were sampled, the diversity of GZ comprised, to a large extent, Trachymedusae and Narcomedusae (Raskoff et al., 2010; Kosobokova et al., 2011). Our results corroborated the dominance of the Arctic-boreal taxa in the Fram Strait (Ronowicz et al., 2015) and agreed with the prevalence of Trachymedusae in the open ocean stations (Fig. 4, Raskoff et al., 2005), however, we did not encounter any Narcomedusae. These hydromedusae are an integral yet understudied (Lindsay et al., 2017) component of the deep-sea ecosystems around the world (Robison, 2004; Raskoff et al., 2010); thus, their absence in this study may be surprising, especially since some species in this order have been previously found in the vicinity of Svalbard (Ronowicz et al., 2015; Mańko et al., 2015) or further south from this archipelago (Licandro et al., 2015).

The distribution of siphonophore species identified here conformed to their assumed typical distribution. P. hydrostatica, although generally considered a typical warm-water species, has previously been recorded in the Nordic Seas (Zelickman, 1972; Mańko et al., 2015) as a result of the encroachment of Atlantic waters into the Arctic. The use of P. hydrostatica as an indicator of Atlantic waters has already been advocated by Naumov (1951), who connected the high abundance of this species along the shores of eastern Murmansk with the unprecedented progression of warm waters into the Barents Sea (Zelickman, 1972). We recorded this species only in the outermost station in shelf waters along southern transect N, that remain under constant influence of Atlantic waters. Two deep-sea species, M. orthocanna and R. plicata, have distribution ranges that are restricted to the Arctic and sub-Arctic waters, with M. orthocanna often referred to as a high-Arctic species (Andersen, 1981). The latter species is far more elusive due to its minute, inconspicuous nectophores, which shrink greatly upon fixation (Margulis, 1982). Therefore, supported by our results, it is justified to assume that R. plicata is far more abundant in Arctic waters than previously believed and that the scarcity of records is attributable to its incomplete description. We also identified two more calycophoran species, M. bargmannae and C. amygdalina, that were typical of deep, Arctic water (below 600 m, Fig. 4). Records of M. bargmannae are scarce, as this species is easily confused with D. arctica (e.g., Morita et al., 2017), but the work of Pugh et al. (1997) indicated that the vertical distribution of these two species does not entirely overlap, as their peaks in abundance occur at different depths. The presence of C. amygdalina over a relatively narrow depth range within the Arctic waters aligns with the suggestion of Pugh et al. (1997). These authors suggested that this species predominated in shallower waters in Antarctica, but in the northern Atlantic Ocean, it dominates from 600 to 900 m, which matched our observations (Fig. 4). During laboratory work, we also encountered a peculiar eudoxid (herein "Diphyid eudoxid indet.") that, based on the distinguishable morphological characters, could be assigned to the calycophoran family Diphyidae Quoy and Gaimard, 1827, but further identification was impossible. These specimens appeared to have their bracts and gonophores fused together, as is the case in the fuseudoxid stage of C. amygdalina, but the overall shape resembled that of the eudoxid stage of D. arctica, which in turn has separate gonophores and bracts. Since the eudoxid stage of M. bargmannae has not been formally described (though see Stepanjants, 1967), it is highly probable that our problematic eudoxids belong to this species. Final confirmation will, however, require molecular work.

Taxonomic uncertainty also arose around the Beroe spp. records. Global ctenophore diversity is not well resolved (Podar et al., 2001) but is even less resolved in the Arctic (Majaneva and Majaneva, 2013). Due to the often overlapping distributions (Oliveira and Miggotto, 214)), inability to preserve fragile ctenophore tissue (Podar et al., 2001) and elusive morphological traits (Tamm and Tamm, 1993), classic morphology-based taxonomy is often inadequate to discriminate between closely related species using fixed specimens. Hence, we restricted our identification of Beroe spp. to the genus level. Discontinuity in the vertical records of Beroe spp. (Fig. 4) and in their spatial distribution across the hydrographic gradient may suggest that in our case, the community of Beroidae comprised two or more closely related species, which were most likely B. cucumis and B. abyssicola. Both species are found in the northern Atlantic and the Arctic Ocean and are known to share similar habitats (Raskoff et al., 2010; Knutsen et al., 2018). Vertical partitioning of the water column by congeners is well documented for planktonic communities (Laakman et al., 2009; Kosobokova and Hopcroft, 2010), which further corroborates our assumption of the

12

[NOTE: source oddities transcribed as printed, not corrected: the citation "(Oliveira
and Miggotto, 214))" is printed with a three-digit year and a doubled closing
parenthesis; "while the later, although also present in the deep waters" uses "later"
for "latter"; "have led to the sever underestimation" prints "sever" for "severe";
"Laakman et al., 2009" is spelled thus in the text (the reference list on a later page
should be checked against it); and the running text calls transect N "southern transect
N" here, consistent with p. 10 but not with p. 11's "northern transect EB". Italics are
not marked in this transcription: the species and genus names ("B. superciliaris",
"Aglantha", "P. hydrostatica", "M. orthocanna", "R. plicata", "M. bargmannae",
"C. amygdalina", "D. arctica", "Beroe", "Plotocnide borealis", "Euphysa flammea",
"B. cucumis", "B. abyssicola") are set in italic on the page, and in several places the
following comma falls inside the italic run ("R. plicata,", "C. amygdalina,",
"D. arctica,"). Colour is not marked: the cross-references and author-date citations are
set in blue as hyperlinks. The degree sign in "5–7 °C" is printed as a small raised
ring.]
