[PAGE 13]

[NOTE: no printed square brackets occur on this page; every "[" in this file is my
marker.]

[RUNNING HEAD] M.K. Mańko, et al.
[RUNNING HEAD] Progress in Oceanography 189 (2020) 102414

presence of more than one Beroe species in the Fram Strait. Likewise, our identification of the remaining ctenophores as M. ovum, although highly probable, must acknowledge the potential for confusion of this species with other cydippid ctenophores that are also present in the coastal waters of Svalbard (Majaneva and Majaneva, 2013).

Potential discrepancies in the number of species found in different regions of the Arctic Ocean, aside from the species distribution ranges, may very likely be attributed to methodological differences. Although below certain depths, planktonic communities are considered convergent to some extent (Robison, 2004; Vecchione et al., 2015), there may still be differences in the local diversity even among closely spaced sampling sites (see, e.g., Licandro et al., 2015 and this study), but these can be captured by applying diverse sampling methodologies (Hosia et al., 2017). Employing remotely operated vehicles (Raskoff et al., 2005; Youngbluth et al., 2008; Raskoff et al., 2010) allows for the detection of sparsely distributed large taxa, but in contrast with net-based studies, such an approach tends to overlook inconspicuous, minute species or elusive life cycle stages (Williams and Conway, 1981, Raskoff et al., 2005). Therefore, species missing from our report are possibly present in the Fram Strait; thus, to eliminate sampling bias from future endeavours, simultaneous deployment of various sampling tools should be prioritized. Furthermore, molecular techniques should be also considered when working with gelatinous zooplankton, as they can allow for circumventing the problem of fixation-related tissue disintegration, frequently occurring while working with more fragile taxa, like ctenophores (e.g., Hosia and Båmstedt, 2007).

4.3. Demographically structured vertical distribution

The distribution of the two most abundant species, A. digitale and D. arctica, was better resolved and easier to explain within the context of the local hydrological settings when their life cycle stages were taken into account (Fig. 5). Our dataset indicated strong vertical, bathymetric and water mass dependent structuring of both A. digitale and D. arctica abundance (Table 2., Figs. 5 and 7). Although distinguishing life cycle stages was straightforward in the case of D. arctica, dividing the population of A. digitale into stages of development was arbitrary and was based on previously published bell heights that may indicate sexual maturity (Takahashi and Ikeda, 2006). These should be interpreted carefully, as the correlation between bell height and gonad production exhibits some geographical variation (Russell, 1938, Williams and Conway, 1981, Pertsova et al., 2006). Ideally, the presence of gonads should be indicated, and their size should be measured to determine the sexual maturity of the specimen. However, this was impossible due to the long formalin storage of the specimens investigated here, which caused the gonads to deteriorate.

The vertical distribution of the boreal jellyfish, A. digitale (Kosobokova et al., 2011), was tightly coupled with local hydrography and bathymetry (Table 2, Figs. 5 and 6). We corroborated that the mature, or at least the largest specimens, persisted in the deepest water layers, whereas the juveniles dominated the surface waters, with the sole exception of the exterior stations along the northern transect, where mature specimens were found at depths > 50 m (Fig. 5). This could be attributed to the presence of Return Atlantic Current, that might have carried along some individuals of A. digitale from neighbouring region. Williams and Conway (1981), in studying the population of this species in the NE Atlantic Ocean, showed a similar pattern of vertical distribution, with smaller specimens (up to 3 mm in bell height) dominating in the top 100 m, while larger jellyfish (bell height > 6 mm) were as deep as 500 m (though no sampling was conducted below 500 m). The most likely explanation of this seemingly general pattern was drawn from the dietary preferences of this species; A. digitale juveniles feed upon the protists or copepod nauplii that dominate the surface waters, while adults tend to predate on the larger copepods that are mostly found in deeper regions (Pagès et al., 1996, Colin et al., 2003). Interestingly, our data revealed the absence of A. digitale above the shelf along the northern transect, but this might have resulted from unequal sampling effort. However, Carstensen et al. (2019) also documented a northward decrease in A. digitale biomass. These authors argued that this trend could be explained either by the deeper distribution of A. digitale (as they sampled only the upper 200 m of the water column) or by dietary competition with Eukrohnia hamata. Pertsova et al. (2006) suggested that the onset of reproduction of this species begins when the surface temperature reaches 9–11 °C, at least in the White Sea. Even if reproduction of A. digitale in the Fram Strait is triggered at lower temperatures, the environmental conditions along the transect EB might still be too harsh for this species to spawn. Temperature has already been demonstrated as the main factor influencing body length (Nicholas and Frid, 1999) and the number of generations of this medusae, which can have as many as 5–6 generations per year in the English Channel (Russel, 1953) but only two in the colder Toyama Bay (Ikeda and Imamura, 1996). Although our data did not allow for determination of a number of generation per year of A. digitale in the Fram Strait, given the observed plasticity of this species' phenology, one might expect that the progressive intrusion of Atlantic waters might alter the current dogma pertaining to reproduction of this species, leading to the development of more than one generation, as was the case for one of the local copepod species (Weydmann et al., 2018). Additionally, A. digitale has been found in the stomach content of numerous fish (e.g., Onchorhynchus keta, Tsuruta, 1963), while experimental work by Runge et al. (1987) demonstrated that mackerel (Scomber scombrus) feeds preferentially on this hydromedusa. With both the predicted and already observable northern expansions of commercially important fish (Haug et al., 2017), an increase in A. digitale abundance may allow for the development of a sustainable population of these fish in polar waters.

The pattern of the vertical distribution of D. arctica was not as straightforward in interpretation as was that of A. digitale. Our data demonstrated the numerical dominance of eudoxids in the local population of this species. D. arctica can at times reach high abundances in various ecosystems (e.g., Weddell Sea; Pugh et al., 1997) and can be evenly distributed in the water column (e.g., near Fuerteventura; Pugh, 1974). The few studies that analysed in depth the population structure of this species showed that eudoxids usually outnumber polygastric stages throughout the year, with a peak of eudoxid production late in the spring and in the summer (Korsfjord, Norway; Hosia and Båmstedt, 2008; but see Pagès and Kurbjeweit, 1994), and that eudoxids are usually more abundant in deeper depth strata (Mapstone 2009). Pugh et al. (1997) revealed the existence of a similar distribution pattern of D. arctica in the Weddell Sea, with the polygastric colonies dominating from 250 to 400 m and a more widespread distribution of eudoxids (down to 800 m). Additionally, the results of Pagès and Kurbjeweit (1994) and Pagès and Schnack-Schiel (1996), who studied GZ distribution in the Weddell Sea, showed a lack of eudoxids from the surface to 50 m. These authors argued that D. arctica avoided colder surface waters and concentrated near the thermocline in the vicinity of Antarctic Slope Front. All these observation, agree with our data (Figs. 4 and 5), as we identified a bulk of D. arctica distribution in the deepest strata sampled; we showed that eudoxids outnumbered polygastric stages; and that only a small population of D. arctica was present in the surface layer in the exterior zone of the southern transect N and in the slope of transect EB. The ratio of eudoxid bracts to gonophores found in this study, indicate that the eudoxids of this species are most likely able to produce more than one gonophore (Carré and Carré, 1991, Pugh et al., 1997). This has major ecological implications, as it translates to the high reproductive potential of D. arctica (Carré and Carré, 1991).

4.4. Atlantic inflow and GZ community of the Fram Strait

The results of our analyses, revealed that the abundance, diversity and demography of GZ community in the Fram Strait are strongly dependent on the distribution of the water masses (Tables 2, 4, and 5).

13

[NOTE: source oddities transcribed as printed, not corrected: "(Table 2., Figs. 5 and 7)"
prints a period after "Table 2"; "Russell, 1938, Williams and Conway, 1981, Pertsova
et al., 2006" and "Williams and Conway, 1981, Raskoff et al., 2005" and "Carré and
Carré, 1991, Pugh et al., 1997" and "Pagès et al., 1996, Colin et al., 2003" separate
citations with commas rather than semicolons; "Mapstone 2009" omits the comma before
the year; "Russel, 1953" is spelled with one "l" here while "Russell, 1938" earlier in
the same page has two; "Onchorhynchus keta" is printed thus (the accepted spelling is
Oncorhynchus); "a number of generation per year" and "the number of generations of this
medusae" are printed with the numbers disagreeing; "All these observation, agree with
our data" and "The ratio of eudoxid bracts to gonophores found in this study, indicate
that" and "The results of our analyses, revealed that" each print a comma before the
verb; and "the number of generations of this medusae, which can have as many as 5–6
generations per year" repeats "generations". Italics are not marked in this
transcription: the species names, "Beroe", "Eukrohnia hamata", "Onchorhynchus keta",
"Scomber scombrus", and the headings 4.3 and 4.4 are set in italic on the page, and in
"D. arctica," the comma falls inside the italic run. Colour is not marked: the
cross-references and author-date citations are set in blue as hyperlinks. The degree
sign in "9–11 °C" is printed as a small raised ring. The apostrophe in "this species'
phenology" is a right single quotation mark.]
