[PAGE 6: unnumbered]

[NOTE: English translation begins here. Born-digital, clean typography, fully justified, no printed folio and no running head. The translation is unattributed. The bracketed "[sic]" after "Hippopopidae" is the translator's own editorial mark, printed in the text, and not a transcriber's insertion. Curly quotation marks are used around "heteromorph". The heads "Abstract", "Introduction", "Calyconula larva" and "The post-larva" are bold; the parenthetical plate references beside the last two are roman. Printed as-is: "The general morphology of the latter are in general agreement", "which differentiates it from the following definitive nectophores", and "are budded the outlines of the second and third cormidia" where the French original reads "deux à trois cormidies".]

ON THE POST-LARVAL DEVELOPMENT OF HIPPOPODIUS HIPPOPUS (FORSKAL)

Danièle Carré

Cahiers de Biologie Marine 9, 417-420; 1968

Abstract

Various post-larval stages of Hippopodius hippopus are described from specimens collected from the plankton. The general morphology of the latter are in general agreement with that described already for larvae of Hippopodius hippopus, but some important features have not been specified, which has led to errors of determination and mistakes. The larval bell has only two radial canals, and the first definitive nectophore has only two knobs, which differentiates it from the following definitive nectophores, which are provided with four knobs.

Introduction

Metschnikoff (1874) managed to fertilise some eggs of Hippopodius hippopus (=Gleba hippopus) and followed the first stages of development as far as the calyconula. Subsequently, some fragmentary observations have been made on post-larval stages attributed to Hippopodius hippopus by Chun (1888, 1913) and Moser (1924) who, like Metschnikoff, figured the larval bell with four radial canals.

In 1954, Totton described a larval Hippopopidae [sic] in which the primary bell possessed only two radial canals, and of which the first definitive bell showed two knobs, like the definitive bell of Vogtia glabra.

We have collected, in plankton nets fished between 50 m and the surface in the Bay of Villefranche-sur-Mer, numerous stages of development that we can attribute to the species Hippopodius hippopus. To our knowledge, these specimens correspond to none of the descriptions previously given for this species. In contrast, the post-larva figured by Totton and identified as belonging to Vogtia glabra is identical to one of the stages that we have observed and which we will describe.

Calyconula larva (Pl. I, 1 & Fig. 1)

The larval bell, 6 mm in height, is almost spherical. The relatively small subumbrella has two radial canals: a dorsal canal and a ventral canal that directly unite the marginal canal to the pedicular canal. The latter joins the subumbrella to the ventrally hollowed hydroecium, which is flattened in the sagittal plane and that stretches down as far as the level of the apex of the subumbrella.

The outline of the stolon is inserted at the bottom of the hydroecium alongside the oleocyst, which itself is perpendicular. On the upper part of the peduncle of the young stolon, one sees one or two buds of nectophores, while on the lower face, a little to the rear of the primary gastrozooid and its tentacle, are budded the outlines of the second and third cormidia.

The post-larva (Pl. I, 2-5)

The stolon elongates and differentiates some cormidia, while the buds of the nectophores enlarge. The first becomes a young “heteromorph” nectophore (also called the first adult nectophore or the first definitive nectophore) with four radial canals, flattened, horseshoe-shaped, with two knobs above the nectosac. Simultaneously, the apical part of the larval nectophore enlarges, its hydroecium widening considerably, and it lengthens in the antero-posterior sense to accommodate the first definitive nectophore.
