[PAGE 420]

[NOTE: French original, scanned; legible throughout. Last page of the French article. Running head "DANIÈLE CARRÉ" in italic capitals with the folio 420 at the outer edge. The German "Zusammenfassung" and English "Summary" are the author's own, in the original journal, and both contain misprints which are transcribed exactly as printed: in the German, "beschrieben doch wurden waren wichtige Karaktere nicht präzisiert", "Känale" for "Kanäle", "forgenden" for "folgenden", and "auswückse" (lower-case, for "Auswüchse"); in the English, "plancton", "the general morphology of the latter are in agreement", "for Hippopodius larval", "two radial canal", "which differentiates itself", and "granted with fours knobs". In the bibliography, author surnames are in small capitals with the forename initials also in small capitals, entries are separated from their titles by an em dash, journal titles and the abbreviation "pp." are italic. Printed as-is: "Stadien" for Metschnikoff's "Studien"; "Ueber den wechsel" with a lower-case w; "Ber Sachs. Ges. (Akad.) Wiss."; "Die larvalen verhältnisse" with a lower-case v. In the Moser entry the final r of "neuer" is broken in the scan and is flagged. A lone "4" is typeset at the foot left — the sequential leaf number of this bilingual compilation, and a short printer's rule sits below it at the very foot of the leaf. A few isolated specks of scanner dirt lie in the lower half of the page.]

[RUNNING HEAD] DANIÈLE CARRÉ

Zusammenfassung

Verschiedene Stadien der postlarvalen Entwicklung von Hippopodius hippopus werden beschrieben nach Individuen, die im Plankton gefunden wurden. Die allgemeine Morphologie dieser Stadien entspricht der jenigen, die bisher für die Larven von Hippopodius beschrieben doch wurden waren wichtige Karaktere nicht präzisiert : die larvale Glocke besitzt bloss 2 radiäre Känale und die erste definitive Glocke besitzt nur 2 Höcker, was sie von den forgenden definitiven Glocken differenziert, die 4 auswückse haben.

Summary

Various post larval stages of Hippopodius hippopus are described from specimens collected in the plancton. The general morphology of the latter are in agreement with that already described for Hippopodius larval but some important features had not been specified which has led to errors of determination and mistakes. The larval nectophore has only two radial canal and the first definitive nectophore has only two knobs which differentiates itself from the following definitive nectophores granted with fours knobs.

INDEX BIBLIOGRAPHIQUE

CHUN, C., 1888 a. — Bericht über eine nach den Canarischen Inseln im Winter 1887-1888 ausgeführte Reise. S.B. Preuss. Akad. Wiss. for 1888, pp. 1141-1173.
CHUN, C., 1888 b. — Die pelagische Tierwelt in grösseren Meerestiefen und ihre Beziehungen zu der Oberflächen fauna. Bibl. Zool. Stuttgart, 1, pp. 12-17, 1 pl.
CHUN, C., 1897. — Über den Bau und die morphologische Auffassung der Siphonophoren. Verh. Dtsch. Zool. Ges., VII, pp. 48-111, 29 text-fig.
CHUN, C., 1913. — Ueber den wechsel der Glocken bei Siphonophoren. Ber Sachs. Ges. (Akad.) Wiss., 65, pp. 27-41, 8 fig.
METSCHNIKOFF, E., 1874. — Stadien über die Entwicklung der Medusen und Siphonophoren. Zeit. Wiss. Zool., 24, pp. 15-83, 10 pl.
MOSER, F., 1924. — Die larvalen verhältnisse der Siphonophoren in [?neuer] Beleuchtung. Zoologica. Stuttgart, 28, 1 (73), pp. 1-52, 5 pl., 35 fig.
TOTTON, A.K., 1954. — Siphonophora of the Indian Ocean together with systematic and biological notes on related species from other oceans. Disc. Rep., 27, pp. 1-161, 12 pl., 83 fig.

4
