[PAGE 6]

[NOTE: English translation, born-digital and fully legible. Figure 3 is a scan of a plate from the French original: its internal lettering (Ect., End., Vit., C.Pr., Ect.A., and the scale "30µ.") is the French original's abbreviated lettering, while the caption beneath it is the translator's new English caption set in born-digital type. Printed as-is: "always enclose in the planula" (for an expected "always enclosed"), "organised" with an s, and the inconsistent capitalisation of "Fig. 3A, B" in the first paragraph against "fig. 3D" in the last.]

endodermal cells form an almost continuous layer on the ventral face and at the anterior pole. The interior of the larva, occupied by the vitellus distributed in vacuoles, shows some large endodermal nuclei. At this stage, one notes the appearance of an orange coloration at the posterior pole, while at the anterior pole 5 or 6 ectodermal cells become very high. By a series of divisions following the perpendicular plane to the surface of the larva, they are organised into a small section more and more reclosed which gradually invaginates by pushing back the endoderm. This structure is the beginnings of the pneumatophore (Pl. III, 1, 2, 3; Fig. 3A, B).

[FIGURE]
Ect.
End.
Vit.
A
30µ.
Ect.
B
Ect.
C
C.Pr.
Ect.
Ect.A.
End.
D

Fig. 3. Differentiation of the pneumatophore of Nanomia bijuga.
A, B, C: invagination of the ectoderm at the anterior pole of the planula (longitudinal section). D: formation of aeriform ectoderm (longitudinal section).
[/FIGURE]

In the larva aged 2.5 days, the invagination of the apical ectoderm is terminated. The pneumatophore is then made up of an internal mass of regular ectodermal cells arranged around a quasi virtual primary cavity (Fig. 3C). This outline is doubled by the endoderm, while the ectoderm is closed again above the zone of invagination. It is at this stage that begins, in the middle region of the ventral face, the budding of the primary larval tentacle.

During the next 24 hours, the outline of the pneumatophore, always enclose in the planula, elongates. In the basal region of the internal ectodermal nodule, some cells divide. They are to be the origin of a small mass that insinuates itself into the primary cavity of the pneumatophore and which represents the aeriform ectoderm (Pl. III, 4; fig. 3D). In the midst of this tissue, in the larva aged 5 days, one sees the
