[PAGE 14]

[NOTE: English translation, born-digital. Figure 6 is a scan of a line-drawing plate from the French original, so its internal lettering (Ect., M., End., Ect.A., Ch., S., C.Ect.A., St., R.End. and the scale "100 µ.") is the French original's while the caption beneath is the translator's English. The scale-bar digits are ink-heavy in the scan but read 100. Printed as-is in the text: "(P. IV)" for an expected "(Pl. IV)", and "the locality in the hypostomial or middle regions ... is not rigorous". The numbered head "3. Budding of the nectophores and cormidia." is set in ordinary roman type and indented like a paragraph, unlike the bold flush-left heads "1. The pneumatophore." and "2. The primary gastrozooid and its tentacle." on earlier pages. The lettering is listed inside [FIGURE] in top-to-bottom order.]

[FIGURE]
Ect.
M.
100 µ.
Ect.A.
End.
End.
Ect.
Ch.
S.
C.Ect.A.
Ect.A.
M.
End.
St.
R.End.

Fig. 6. Differentiation of the pneumatophore of Nanomia bijuga.
Basal part of the pneumatophore of an older siphonula. One notes the endodermal septa amongst which some are beginning to insinuate into the cavities of the aeriform ectoderm (parasagittal section).
[/FIGURE]

It is convenient to note that the locality in the hypostomial or middle regions of each of these types of glandular cells is not rigorous. There exists a large zone of transition where these three categories of cells coexist (P. IV).

In the basal portion of the gastrozooid, the endoderm is deprived of glandular elements. It is formed by large, quite flattened ciliated cells. Some have slight projections into the gastric cavity and have a large vacuole that can contain some discharged nematocysts and some waste.

The ectoderm of the gastrozooid is made up of a thin ciliated layer without apparent differentiation.

At the base of the primary gastrozooid are developed two larval tentacles which extend in opposite directions (Pl. II, 4, 5). On each of these filaments are budded 5 to 6 slightly differentiated tentilla, typical of physonect larvae and differing from the adult definitive tentilla.

3. Budding of the nectophores and cormidia.

The zone of constriction that, in the young siphonula, separated the pneumatophore from the primary gastrozooid elongates later in development and forms a hollow tube, the stolon (Pl. II, 5, 6). On this small axis, buds, above the primary gastrozooid, a bract which covers the primary cormidium (Pl. II, 5). Then, in
