[PAGE 7]

[NOTE: English translation, born-digital and fully legible. No figures on this page. Printed as-is: the section head "THE SIPHONULA" set in bold small capitals with its reference in roman; "Fig 7A" without a full stop after "Fig" in one place against "Fig. 7A" elsewhere on the same page; "fig. 7B" lowercase in one place against "Fig. 7B" in another; "commonplace in the young adult pneumatophore" and "a dozen particles of relatively large secretion", both awkward renderings of the French, transcribed as printed. The micron sign in "550µm" is printed as a Greek mu.]

formation of an elongated cavity containing some gas and which is the definitive cavity of the pneumatophore (Pl. I, 4; Pl. III, 5).

At this stage, the larva measures 550µm in length. It shows an annular constriction at the level of the zone of budding of the first larval tentacle and takes the name siphonula.

THE SIPHONULA (Pl. II, 4, 5, 6)

The evolution of the young siphonula into a colony, bearing a functional pneumatophore, some swimming bells, some bracts and digestive organs, is realised over several days. We describe the formation or the achievement of these different structures.

1. The pneumatophore.

The pneumatophore which, in the planula, is only a small bud included in the embryonic body, forms, as in the siphonula, all the anterior part of the larva (Pl. II, 4, 5). It is characterised by the presence of a definitive cavity filled with gas which becomes more and more voluminous and apical. Around this cavity, the peripheral layer of the internal ectodermal nodule forms a monostratified layer and secretes a thin layer of chitin (Fig. 4). This layer is interrupted in the region which has given rise to the aeriform ectoderm which constitutes, at this stage, a small mass of large cells, with granulose cytoplasm and highly stainable, localised at the base of the pneumatophore. In the midst of this aeriform tissue, in a week old larva, appear some small cavities which do not contain gas but some granulations showing a great staining affinity and appearing as some secretions (Pl. III, 6). These cavities develop gradually, merge and form at the base of the float of very young colonies, a large pocket separated from the endoderm by a layer of aeriform ectodermal cells (Fig. 4, 5, 6). Chun (1897) described similar structures in Physophora hydrostatica; he interpreted them not as some cavities but as large ramified cells. In Nanomia bijuga we have never observed such structures allowing us to retain this interpretation. At the same time that these cavities appear, the cells of the endodermal layer duplicate the internal ectodermal formations, becoming very high (Fig. 5). Then, this layer folds along eight generative lines and forms eight longitudinal septa that stretch out from the apex of the pneumatophore as far as its base and connect the endodermal layer enveloping the internal ectoderm to that against the external ectoderm of the pneumatophore (Pl. III; Fig 7A). It delimits thus eight longitudinal cavities, in communication with the gastrovascular cavity of the colony (Fig. 6; Fig. 7B).

In the adult colonies, the cavities appearing in the aeriform ectoderm emit, on the face of each endodermal septum, a prolongation which insinuates between the two layers of the lamella (Pl. III, 7, 8; Fig. 6; Fig. 7A). Then, these prolongations become spherical while at their level the endodermic spans are united. (Pl. III, 9; fig. 7B).

At the end of development, the pneumatophore of Nanomia bijuga shows thus three types of cavity: the large apical cavity containing gas and which connects directly with the outside via a pore of neoformation; the close cavities of aeriform tissue which contain some particles of secretion and which extend into the endodermal septa; the endodermic cavities which are in connection with the gastrovascular cavity of the colony.

The morphological differentiations of the pneumatophore that we have described are accompanied by some cytological differentiations. The external ectodermal cells, commonplace in the young adult pneumatophore, show, in their superficial region, a dozen particles of relatively large secretion. Although their morphology is very different, they resemble some spherical gastric cells. In addition,
