[PAGE 22: unnumbered]

[NOTE: English translation begins here. Born-digital, clean typography, no printed folio, no running head. The translation is unattributed. Bracketed question marks — "[?]" — are printed in this page by the translator to flag terms he or she could not resolve; they are part of the text and are transcribed literally, and should not be confused with the transcriber's own uncertainty markers. Mistranslations and misspellings ("Gube's fuchsin paraldehyde" for Gabe's; "glychémalun" in one place and "glychémaun" in another; "The have been maintained") are transcribed exactly as printed. Curly quotation marks are used throughout.]

HISTOLOGICAL STUDY ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF
NANOMIA BIJUGA (CHIAJE, 1841),
SIPHONOPHORA, PHYSONECTAE, AGALMIDAE

Danièle Carré

Cahiers de Biologie Marine 10, 325-341; 1969

Summary

The histological study of the first developmental stages of the siphonophore Nanomia bijuga shows that the segmentation leads to a sterroblastula which changes into a gastrula, by primary delamination. The gastrula evolves into a planula, the ectodermal cells of the anterior pole of which invaginate to form the internal ectoderm of the pneumatophore. The differentiation of the pneumatophore is described.

The author studies also the different kinds of glandular cells of the primary gastrozooid and the development of the gonophores in young colonies.

Finally, some experiments are described showing the possibility of regulation in the larvae.

Introduction

Metschnikoff has given an excellent morphological description of the development of the physonect siphonophore Nanomia bijuga (Chiaje, 1841), from the planula as far as the siphonula stage.

We have attempted to complete this work by means of various histological techniques, in that we have concentrated more particularly on the segmentation of the egg, the process of gastrulation and the differentiation of the pneumatophore.

Material and culture

Colonies of Nanomia bijuga have been collected in spring, between 0 and 10m depth, with the aid of plastic bags. The have been maintained in a cooled chamber (14°C), in frequently replenished seawater and fed with Artemia up to the maturation of the male and female gonophores.

The eggs, then the larvae, have been collected into some Petri dishes and placed in a cool chamber on a rocking table.

Techniques used

We have obtained some precise information by observations of living material under the microscope and by staining in toto some first stages of segmentation and some planulae (Bouin water-70% alcohol - “glychémalun de Mayer”[?] - chlorohydric alcohol at 0.5%).

After fixation, then inclusion in paraffin, the different larval stages have been cut into a series of sections of 5µm thickness and stained.

Histological staining: Prenant’s trichromic [?]; Gube’s fuchsin paraldehyde; “glychémaun de Mayer” [?] and picro-indigo-carmine; Feulgen.

Histochemical staining: Hotchkiss-MacManus (PAS); alcian blue non-oxidised at pH3 [?]; mucicarmine; Unna Brachet reaction [?].
