[PAGE 02]
[RUNNING HEAD] Hosia et al.	10.3389/fmars.2024.1421514

1 Introduction

Widespread or cosmopolitan distributions have been assumed to be commonplace for planktonic organisms, including siphonophores, due to the apparent uniformity of their pelagic environment and lack of physical barriers to dispersal (but see Johnson et al., 2022). However, the emergence of molecular methods has revealed that many morphologically described planktonic species in fact consist of clusters of cryptic or pseudocryptic species (Norris, 2000), also for siphonophores (Pontin and Cruickshank, 2012; Grossmann et al., 2013, 2014; Panasiuk et al., 2019). Significant genetic divergence is seen between the Atlantic and Pacific populations of siphonophores (Dunn et al., 2005), and several species show large inter-geographic and intra-specific genetic distances, indicative of potential cryptic species (Grossmann et al., 2014). Traditional morphology-based taxonomy may thus be significantly underestimating pelagic diversity, as it does not account for this cryptic diversity (Norris, 2000). Unravelling the taxonomy of cryptic species groups requires the integrated use of molecular methods and careful morphological examination.

Agalmatid physonect siphonophores of the genus Nanomia are a common globally distributed component of gelatinous plankton communities (Mapstone, 2014), at times forming dense swarms or blooms (Browne et al., 1898; Rogers et al., 1978; Mills, 1995; Knutsen et al., 2018). The genus Nanomia currently comprises two species: N. cara A. Agassiz, 1865 and N. bijuga (Delle Chiaje, 1844). While both species are frequently reported from surveys, there has been some confusion regarding their morphological identification and geographic distributions. It is likely that Nanomia specimens are often misidentified or assigned to a species primarily based on the observation locality and the presumed distributions of the two accepted species, rather than as a result of a proper morphological identification. This is partly because it can be challenging to identify specimens using existing identification literature (e.g., Totton, 1965; Kirkpatrick and Pugh, 1984; Pugh, 1999; Bouillon et al., 2004; Mapstone, 2009).

The respective type localities of N. cara A. Agassiz, 1865 and N. bijuga (Delle Chiaje, 1844) are Nahant, Massachusetts, in the NW Atlantic and the Gulf of Naples in the Mediterranean. Both species have been historically known under a variety of synonyms (see e.g. Schuchert, 2024; Totton, 1965; Mapstone, 2009) and were not reassigned to the same genus until about a century after their description, by Totton, 1954. To add to the confusion around Nanomia identification and nomenclature, Sars (1846) described and made detailed illustrations of a new species, Agalmopsis elegans, observed in Florø, Norway. Unfortunately, this was a compound species, depicting the nectophores of Nanomia cara together with the tricornuate tentilla of Agalma elegans (Sars, 1846, Pl. 5 & 6). The currently accepted view assumes a cosmopolitan distribution between 55° N and 59° S for N. bijuga and a more restricted North Atlantic and Arctic (40-64° N) distribution for N. cara (Totton, 1965; Pugh, 1999; Mapstone, 2014).

Like other siphonophores, Nanomia spp. are colonial animals consisting of physiologically integrated, specialized zooids

organized in a species-specific pattern. When collected by plankton nets, the colonies most often disassociate, with various detached zooids and more or less bare stems bearing the pneumatophore observed in the sample. While counting the pneumatophores can provide an estimate of the number of physonect colonies in the sample, nectophores are the zooid most commonly used for species identification. In addition to often being the most conspicuous of the detached zooids, nectophores have several characters including general shape, pigmentation, and the pattern of canals and ridges that can be used to infer species.

According to taxonomic literature, the key character used to separate the two Nanomia species is the plane in which their nectophores are flattened. Depending on the terminology used, N. bijuga nectophores are described as flattened from stem to ostial side, in the vertical plane (Totton, 1965) or along the proximal-distal axis (Mapstone, 2009), while N. cara nectophores are flattened in the horizontal plane (Totton, 1965) or along the upper-lower axis (Mapstone, 2009) in a manner typical of many other physonects. In his comparison of the two species, Totton (1954) also mentions the presence of an oil droplet at the base of the palpons as being characteristic of N. cara, but such oil droplets have since also been shown to occur in N. bijuga from the Pacific (Mapstone, 2009; Church et al., 2015). Totton (1954) further describes some differences in pigmentation, and N. cara colonies have been suggested to generally grow to a larger size than N. bijuga (Mapstone, 2009). However, the latter two characters are likely variable and thus of limited value for identification and can also be impossible to infer from detached or preserved nectophores. Totton (1965) concluded that while the two Nanomia species can be told apart by their nectophores, to what extent they differ in other respects has not been determined, and the literature published since then has done little to clarify this situation.

While separating the two species based on their nectophore morphology sounds straightforward, it has proven to be challenging in practice. The two extremes of nectophore morphology, as illustrated for N. cara by Totton (1954) and N. bijuga by Kawamura (1911), are easy enough to tell apart, but samples often contain nectophores of intermediate habitus that are not easily assigned to either species. The taxonomic literature also illustrates a continuum of nectophore shapes, with the Pacific Nanomia in particular having an intermediate form (Figure 1). To further complicate identification, net caught specimens have often suffered damage during sampling, and nectophores fixed in formalin undergo varying stages of contraction and tend to lose their coloration as well as their life-like shape, since the mesogloea may become very soft.

Subsequently, the identification of Nanomia can pose difficulties. Nanomia is ubiquitous throughout NE Atlantic waters, from around Great Britain and North Sea in the south, along the entire Norwegian coast including in the fjords, and all the way up to the Arctic region in Atlantic waters (Kirkpatrick and Pugh, 1984; Hosia and Båmstedt, 2008; Knutsen et al., 2018). While literature suggests that it is N. cara that occurs in NE Atlantic waters, nectophores with intermediate morphology are often observed in Norwegian waters, making identification doubtful. Further confusion regarding the species identity of NE Atlantic

Frontiers in Marine Science	02	frontiersin.org

[NOTE: two-column page. The left column has been transcribed in full and then the right column in full; the paragraph beginning "organized in a species-specific pattern" is the top of the right column and continues the sentence that the left column breaks off at "specialized zooids". The running head at the top (author short form at left, DOI at right) and the running foot at the bottom (journal name, folio 02, frontiersin.org) are transcribed with tabs between their elements. In-text citations are printed as coloured hyperlinks; the colour is not marked. Genus and species names are in italic; italics are not marked. Two hyphens fall at line ends and have been kept because the compounds they belong to are hyphenated in the same font elsewhere on the page: "inter-geographic" (compare "intra-specific" set within a line immediately after) and "proximal-distal" (compare "upper-lower" set within a line just below). The hyphen at the end-of-line break in "re-/assigned" has been removed, per the convention for line-break hyphens, giving "reassigned". Presentation ligatures for fi and fl in the body font are transcribed as the ordinary two letters throughout.]
