[PAGE 18]
[RUNNING HEAD] Hosia et al.	10.3389/fmars.2024.1421514

Jackson, Australia, its description is vague, and the species is considered a taxon inquirendum in the World Hydrozoa Database (Schuchert, 2024). The latter was collected off Tuvalu (tropical Pacific), and differs in morphology from N. septata sp. n. Given the lack of documented morphological similarity with the above species and the considerable geographic distance to their type localities, the magnitude of unresolved diversity of Pacific Nanomia (e.g., Figure 3), as well as the convoluted systematics of Nanomia, we consider it justified and prudent erect a new species for N. septata.

4 Discussion

Several factors have served to make assigning Nanomia specimens to the previously accepted species N. bijuga and N. cara challenging. The existence of several, hitherto morphologically undescribed lineages has certainly impeded correct identification of Nanomia from the Pacific. Furthermore, the focus on the identification between N. bijuga and N. cara has largely been on the axis of flattening of the nectophores, but this character is somewhat subjective and does not account for the ontogenetic changes in the morphology of N. cara nectophores, thus leading to erroneous conclusions about younger nectophores in particular. A better character to separate the species is the arrangement of the ridges on the upper surface of the nectophores, as described in the current paper (Table 1; Figures 5, 9, 11).

We suggest that the so-called auriculate ridge joining the lateral and upper lateral ridges of the nectophores, which Totton (1965) describes from some, but not all, N. bijuga individuals, is indeed a diagnostic character for N. bijuga proper. Such auriculate ridges are absent from all Pacific specimens now considered N. septata sp. n., as well as all Atlantic N. cara. The species also differ in terms of the relative placement of the junction between the lateral ridge and the upper lateral ridge.

Another point of confusion has been the presence of oil droplets at the base of the palpons. Our data suggests that conspicuous, external oil droplets are only present in N. cara, while any such droplets in N. septata remain internal to the palpon, only resulting in a slight protrusion (also see Church et al., 2015). No oil droplets were observed in N. bijuga. Finally, N. septata sp. n. clearly differs from both other species in terms of the conspicuousness of the septa in its pneumatophore.

Our results clarify that the Nanomia commonly observed in NE Atlantic waters is predominantly N. cara, as previously suggested by several authors (Totton, 1954; Kirkpatrick and Pugh, 1984; Hosia and Båmstedt, 2008; Knutsen et al., 2018). That being said, advection of siphonophores and other pelagic hydrozoans with a more southern distribution into the North Sea and along the Norwegian coast is not an uncommon occurrence (Båmstedt et al., 1998; Edwards et al., 1999; Fosså et al., 2003), so we cannot completely dismiss the validity of all N. bijuga observations from these waters. Nevertheless, all our samples from Irish waters are unequivocally N. cara, rather than N. bijuga as proposed by Baxter et al. (2012) and (Haberlin et al., 2016, 2019). Incidentally, the most commonly reproduced illustration of N. cara nectophores, originally from Totton (1954), is based on a specimen collected at Valentia Island, Ireland.

The morphology of N. cara nectophores is shown to change during ontogeny and growth, with the smaller and younger nectophores generally having a more intermediate shape reminiscent of N. bijuga. As the size of the colonies at this point is also closer to that typical of N. bijuga from Atlantic and Mediterranean waters, it can be difficult to morphologically tell apart the two species in this size range based on general nectophore habitus or the plane of flattening. The small size (0.5-2 mm in diameter) of the nectophores examined by Baxter et al. (2012) could have contributed to a potential misidentification based on morphology. Baxter et al. (2012) also confirmed their identification by comparing 18S sequences with those from a presumed N. bijuga from the Pacific, but as the sequences were not published, we have been unable to verify their identity. A re-evaluation of these results would be interesting, as we now know that there are multiple species of Nanomia present in Pacific waters. 18S sequences are also highly conserved within cnidarians (Berntson et al., 1999; Cartwright et al., 2008). The results from Baxter et al. (2012) in combination with the shape of the nectophores led Haberlin et al. (2016) to misidentify their Irish specimens as N. bijuga, though they also stated that the material showed a marked similarity to the early descriptions of N. cara (Agassiz, 1865; Fewkes, 1888). These nectophores were also only up to ~1.4 mm in width, and the photos of the colony from Bantry Bay show small N. cara nectophores of an intermediate morphology (as N. bijuga, Figure 2 in Haberlin et al., 2016).

Morphological variation in colony size and other characteristics has previously been reported for both N. cara and N. bijuga. While the N. cara originally described by Agassiz (1865) were relatively small, colonies up to 2-3 inches long, N. cara in the NW Atlantic are known to reach much larger sizes: Fewkes (1888) observed colonies up to five feet in length at the entrance to the Bay of Fundy, whereas colonies ranging from 0.2 to 3.7 m were reported to occur in an aggregation observed in the Gulf of Maine by Rogers et al. (1978), the largest ones with 30-40 nectophores and >200 gastrozooids. Sars (1846) observed specimens up to 50 cm long along the Norwegian coast, although we cannot be certain whether these were in fact N. cara or Agalma elegans. While N. bijuga has generally been considered the smaller species, the Pacific colonies from the Gulf of California and Hawaii observed in this study were much larger than their Mediterranean counterparts, having ~30 nectophores each. “Giant colonies” of Nanomia have also previously been reported to occur off the west coast of North America (P.R. Pugh, pers. comm. in Mapstone, 2009), and these are likely referring to N. septata, which Pugh frequently encountered. Size of the Nanomia nectophores also varies, both within and between species (Mapstone, 2009; this study). Variation in the length of the cnidoband and the relative length of the involucrum are also reported by Mapstone (2009). Some of the variation observed in size and morphology may be related to growth and maturation of the colonies, as shown for N. cara nectophore morphology.

The genetic division between Atlantic N.bijuga and Pacific N. septata n.sp. has been previously implied and was not entirely unexpected (Dunn et al., 2005; Park and Lee, 2022). However, our molecular analyses revealed not two, but three or four distinct lineages in addition to the North Atlantic N. cara, occurring in (1)

Frontiers in Marine Science	18	frontiersin.org

[NOTE: Two-column page with no figures; the left column is transcribed in full, then the right. The first paragraph continues the sentence broken off at the foot of page 17 ("collected from Port" / "Jackson, Australia"), and the right column ends mid-sentence at "occurring in (1)".

Presentation ligatures (fi, fl, ff) are transcribed as the ordinary letter sequences. "justified and prudent erect a new species" is printed thus, without "to" before "erect". "N.bijuga" is printed without a space after the point in the last paragraph of the right column, and "n.sp." there is printed in that order, where elsewhere in the paper the same author writes "sp. n."; both as printed. "Båmstedt" and "Fosså" carry printed Scandinavian diacritics (a with ring above, a with ring above). The quotation marks around "Giant colonies" are printed as curly double quotation marks. The section heading "4 Discussion" is printed larger and in the journal's blue. Running head and running foot elements are separated by tabs.]
