[PAGE 11]
[RUNNING HEAD] Hosia et al.	10.3389/fmars.2024.1421514

[FIGURE]
A
B
ngz
C
ld	br
pa
gz
D
tn
FIGURE 7
Nanomia cara (A) colony, (B) pneumatophore and upper nectosome, (C, D) parts of siphosome. br, bract; gz, gastrozooid; ld, lipid droplet; ngz, nectosomal growth zone; pa, palpon; tn, tentacle. Live specimen from Gulf of Maine. White spots on nectophores not typical, may be air bubbles resulting from sample processing. Photos by David Shale.
[/FIGURE]

and the descending mantle canal passes down towards nectophore’s lower surface.

Thrust block identifiable in small nectophores from outside Cork Harbour, Ireland, as small dome-shaped protrusion between axial wings (in upper view). As nectophore grows larger and axial wings move further apart (in Arctic and Norwegian specimens), thrust block broadens and protrudes further from proximal surface of nectosac (in upper view). In some very large Arctic nectophores, the thrust block may dome out beyond proximal ends of axial wings in upper view, while in others it remains level with axial wings; a thrust block can also be identified as a large structure in lateral views of mature nectophores, extending from the upper proximal surface. In some nectophores from the Arctic, thrust block shorter than axial wings in upper view, but mesogloea still thickened in this region. This is illustrated by the relatively extensive length of the internal pedicular canal.

Siphosome: Cormidia easily discerned on siphosomal stem of the large colony from Gulf of Maine, delimited anteriorly by an elongate gastrozooid with a broad band of orange-red pigment near its proximal end and contracted tentacle with prominent tentilla (Figure 7). Most cormidia in these images comprising 4-5 palpons

(identifiable by their single proximal lipid droplet), and numerous bracts. No gonodendra identified in specimen in Figure 7, suggesting it was not yet sexually mature.

Gastrozooid and tentacle: Small spot of orange pigment near proximal end of gastrozooids of Rocky Bay specimen, with more similar spots present in Norwegian gastrozooids. In larger gastrozooids from the Gulf of Maine 2015 colony, orange-red pigment more extensive in the proximal half of the zooid (Figure 7). Many larval tentilla developing at proximal end of basigaster in young Bantry Bay gastrozooids, but no definitive tentilla. Larval tentilla also associated with some tentacles of Rocky Bay specimen, but most tentilla on this latter specimen definitive with 2-3 coiled orange cnidoband enclosed by partial involucrum and single relaxed long terminal filament when alive. Tentilla with 5-8 coils were observed on a live specimen from Bergen, while 10-11 coils were present throughout siphosome of Gulf of Maine specimen (Figure 7); most pigmented orange red, but a few transparent.

Palpons: From 1.0 to 4.0 mm max length in present material; most containing proximal lipid droplet, becoming prominent in large palpons (Figure 7); palpons all opaque in preserved material with thin palpacle emerging from proximal end. In young Bantry

Frontiers in Marine Science	11	frontiersin.org

[NOTE: Figure 7 fills the upper two thirds of the page in a boxed panel; below it the page is two columns, transcribed left column then right column. The first paragraph continues the sentence broken off at the foot of page 10, and the right column ends mid-sentence at "In young Bantry".

Inside the [FIGURE] block only text physically printed in the panel is given; the photographs are not described. Figure 7 is four photographs: A is a tall panel down the left side, and B, C, D are stacked to its right, each letter printed in white at the panel's top left corner. The white leader labels are transcribed panel by panel in the order A (which carries none), B, C, D, and within each panel in approximate top-to-bottom order; where labels sit level they are separated by a tab. Presentation ligatures (fi, fl) are transcribed as the ordinary two-letter sequences. The apostrophe in “nectophore’s” is printed as a right single quotation mark and is given as that character. Running head and running foot elements are separated by tabs.]
