[PAGE 71]
[NOTE: offprint title page. Two small ink marks sit at the extreme top-left edge of the sheet, cropped by the scan and not legible.]

From the ANNALS AND MAGAZINE OF NATURAL HISTORY
Ser. 13, vol. viii, p. 71, February, 1965.

A NEW SPECIES OF LENSIA (SIPHONOPHORA : DIPHYIDAE) FROM THE COASTAL WATERS OF VANCOUVER, B.C.; AND ITS COMPARISON WITH LENSIA ACHILLES TOTTON AND ANOTHER NEW SPECIES LENSIA CORDATA.

By A. K. TOTTON,
· British Museum (Natural History).

THE object of this paper is to fix the identity of a small diphyid siphonophore of the genus Lensia that occurs in Burke Inlet off Vancouver, B.C., with a view to encouraging its further study and obtaining more specimens of both its polygastric and eudoxid phases. Some figures are given of a related new species. The specimens of the Vancouver species on which the paper is based were kindly sent to me just after I had completed my synopsis (Totton, 1965). The species to which they belong was at first thought to be Lensia achilles Totton, 1941 because of the fact that L. achilles was the only species known at that time in which the ostial ends of the lateral ridges ran dorsad, as shown in figures of L. achilles (Totton 1941, figs. 6, 7). But it now appears that there is more than one species of Lensia whose lateral ridges run dorsad at the ostial end. They can be differentiated by the shape of the somatocyst, which is fairly constant.

The somatocyst of L. achilles was shown to be somewhat elongated, club- or spindle-shaped. It is difficult to find specimens of L. achilles, a red or orange coloured deep-water species, in good enough condition to figure, but a study of more than eighty anterior nectophores from twenty-two net-hauls, half of which were made by closing nets, showed that the shape of the somatocyst was fairly constantly club-shaped. In fact this was one of the criteria for specific identity. There is another allied new species whose somatocyst is short and heart-shaped. Ninety seven specimens of this were picked out from six net-hauls, three of them made by closing nets.

The Vancouver specimens were unusually robust and squat for Lensia spp, and in all seven the apical end of the somatocyst was partly constricted off and smaller in diameter than the main part. This feature is not shown in Bigelow's (1913) fig. 2, which I would otherwise suspect of belonging to this new Vancouver species. Bigelow figured and described it as coming from the coasts of British Columbia under the name Diphyes truncata. Up to that time Bigelow had included under this name truncata specimens of several small diphyid species including (1) Lensia conoidea Sars (see Bigelow & Sears 1937), (2) L. multicristata (Moser), (3) L. challengeri Totton, and (4) his (1913) figure 2. The name L. truncata is a synonym of L. conoidea (Sars), so is no longer used.
